CALL US TO ORDER GOOD EVENING
AND WELCOME TO THE TUESDAY
MARCH 15TH TWENTY TWENTY TWO
REGULAR MEANING OF THE ANNA
REPLANNING MISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
WHICH IS AVAILABLE ONLINE.
ITEM NUMBER TWO IS ROLL CALL.
&gt;&gt; MR. LUNNER, WILL YOU PLEASE
ASSIST WITH THAT?
ABSOLUTELY.
MILLS HERE COMMISSIONER GET
BRANDELL HERE.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S HERE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER LEE HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH PETER FOOTBOARD VERY GOOD
ITEM THREE IS APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THE AGENDA MOVED IF I COULD I
WILL BE ABLE TO SPEAK TONIGHT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DISH A
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND THAT
ALL OF THE HANDS THE MOTION
CARRIES ITEM FOUR ARE THE
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETINGS AND IN OUR PACKET THIS
EVENING JUST IN TIME WE HAD THE
MINUTES FOR BOTH THE FEBRUARY
15TH AND MARCH FIRST TWENTY
TWENTY TWO MEETINGS.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THOSE MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ABRAN SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
LI ANY DISCUSSION OR CORRECTION
WITHIN THE MINUTES ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE RAISE A
HAND OR SAY YES THAT IS ALL
OF THE HANDS.
NEXT UP OUR IS ITEM FIVE THE
REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER PLANNING
COMMISSIONER OFFICERS AND
COMMITTEES AND ANY WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS AND PETITIONS
AND I&apos;LL JUST SAY I&apos;M THAT LAST
ITEM WE HAD NUMEROUS
COMMUNICATIONS INCLUDING
WEBSTER TOWNSHIP&apos;S DRAFT MASTER
PLAN FOR OUR REVIEW
COMMISSIONER DISH.
&gt;&gt; SO AT THE LAST CITY COUNCIL
MEETING WE HAD TO SEE ONE THE
STATE EISENHOWER, A
GEOGRAPHICALLY SPECIFIC ZONING
PASSING ON FIRST READING AND WE
HAD THE CONCEPT PLAN FOR THREE
FIFTY S FIFTH PASSING FIRST
READING SO THERE WILL BE A
PUBLIC HEARING AND ALL OF THAT
FINAL APPROVAL AT THE FIRST
MEETING IN APRIL.
I&apos;M PRETTY SURE AND THE COUNCIL
APPROVED THE RESOLUTION TO
ESTABLISH AN INDUSTRIAL PARK
FOR SARTORIUS.
SO THANK YOU FOR SENDING ALL
THAT FORWARD, MR LEONARD.
&gt;&gt; ANYTHING TO ADD?
NO REPORTS THIS EVENING ANY
COMMISSIONED OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEES TO REPORT OUT
COMMITTEE LIAISON&apos;S?
ALL RIGHT THEN LET&apos;S MOVE TO
ITEM SIX, THE PUBLIC COMMENTS.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT&apos;S NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA.
SO TO BE CLEAR, WE WILL HAVE
DEDICATED PUBLIC HEARINGS ON
THE TWO AMENDMENTS
, MULTIPLE
AMENDMENTS WITHIN THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE .
WE&apos;LL HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING ON
THE ANN ARBOR CHINESE CHURCH
EXPANSION AND ON MAPLECROFT
TWO.
BUT IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC COMMENT ON ANYTHING
ELSE, THAT IS AN APPROPRIATE
TIME.
FIRST WE&apos;LL CALL ON FOLKS THAT
ARE HERE IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS.
IF YOU&apos;RE WATCHING US NOW,
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
YOU&apos;RE LISTENING BY PHONE YOU
CAN USE THE RAISED HAND BUTTON
IF YOU HAVE JOINED US THROUGH
THE ZOOME LINK OR IF YOU NEED
TO DIAL IN.
&gt;&gt; OUR CALL IN NUMBER IS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND THEN THE
MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
MR LEINERT FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
JOINING REMOTELY MR LEINERT
WILL CALL ON THOSE WHO HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND CALLING YOU
BY THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR TELEPHONE NUMBER OR BY
YOUR NAME WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND
WHETHER YOU&apos;RE HERE IN PERSON
OR CALLING IN ONLINE IF YOU
COULD PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; SO FOR THOSE WHO HAVE JOINED
IN PERSON, IF YOU HAVE A
COMMENT ABOUT ANYTHING THAT&apos;S
NOT HAVING A PUBLIC HEARING,
THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE TIME.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, MR LEONARD, IS
THERE ANYONE ONLINE THERE IS
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH FIVE THREE FOUR
CALL OVER THE PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TIME STOLLBERG
CALLING FROM LOWERTOWN THAT
NUMBER LATER ON WE&apos;LL TALK
ABOUT THE ANSWER TO A REVISION
I FOR MYSELF IN A LONG
CONVERSATION WITH SOMEBODY
ABOUT THAT THAT LED TO
DIFFERENTIATE THAT FROM A USE.
SO I FOUND MYSELF EXPLAINING
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE TWO
AND SETBACKS BUILDING BLOCKS.
SO IT OCCURS TO ME THAT IT
MIGHT BE HELPFUL WHEN YOU
DISCUSS IT LATER ON TO DISCUSS
SOME OF THE NAVY YOU IN A
DUPLEX AND AND SOME OF SPECIFIC
ISSUES LIKE SETBACKS AND
BUILDING HOPES SO PEOPLE CAN
UNDERSTAND THAT AND SEE PALLOT
I THINK THAT BE HELPFUL TO
ANYBODY IN THE PUBLIC WHO&apos;S
WATCHING WHAT THAT I WANT TO
USE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;D BE INTERESTING
FOR US TO KNOW SOME THAT&apos;S HOW
MANY TO USE SINCE THE ORDINANCE
WAS REVISED HAVE COME IN SINCE
WE&apos;VE ELIMINATED THE OWNER
OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENT EITHER
EIGHTY USE THAT USED TO BE
OWNER OCCUPIED NO LONGER ARE
THINGS LIKE THAT AT MOST YOU
KNOW AFTER A PERIOD OF TIME YOU
KNOW WHAT THE IMPACT OF OUR
CHANGES TO OUR AUDIENCES ARE WE
SET GOALS BACK THEN OR AT LEAST
DESIRES THAT WERE STATED IN
TERMS OF THE NUMBERS TO ACHIEVE
AND BE INTERESTING FOR THE
PUBLIC TO BE ABLE TO HAVE THAT
INFORMATION SO WE CAN GAUGE HOW
IT&apos;S GONE.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN THE OTHER THING
THAT CAME UP WITH TO USE WAS
NOTES.
AND SO IF SOMEBODY WANTS TO
BUILD AN AVENUE THAT THERE IS
NO NOTICE GIVEN TO ANYBODY
REALLY A BUILDING PERMIT AND
THEY HAVE BEEN MENTIONED BY
ANOTHER MEMBER OF THE PUBLIC
THAT I RECALL BACK WHEN THE
ORDINANCE PROVISIONS WERE BEING
REVIEWED IS IS THERE A WAY TO
GIVE SOME NOTICE AND THIS CAME
UP IN THE CONVERSATION.
YES.
ABOUT RESTRICTIONS IN CERTAIN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT MAY BE IN
SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS.
I WAS IN AN ASSOCIATION AND
THAT THE ADA MIGHT BE IN
CONFLICT WITH THOSE
RESTRICTIONS.
BUT WHEN SOMEBODY JUST
BARGAINING POWER TO GIVE TO YOU
THAT THERE&apos;S NO NOTICE TO
NEIGHBORS SO THEY REALLY DON&apos;T
HAVE A HEADS UP TO TRY TO WORK
WITH THE NEIGHBOR WHO MIGHT BE
UNKNOWINGLY VIOLATING
RESTRICTIONS AND BYLAWS OR
WHATEVER OTHER LIMITATIONS ON
HIS LOT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THEY MIGHT BE ON
RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
&gt;&gt; THIS PERSON SHOULD BE AWARE
OF THE REMARKS THAT THE
DEPARTMENT DOESN&apos;T CHECK THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WAS SUGGESTED BACK A YEAR OR SO
AGO WAS TO GIVE SOME KIND
OF NOTICE TO NEIGHBORS WANT TO
GIVE YOU A PERMIT FOR ONE IS
BEING APPLIED FOR AND THEN WE
CAN HAVE THOSE THINGS OFF
BEFORE THERE&apos;S A CONFLICT.
THINGS ARE A LITTLE TOO LATE
AND CONTRACTORS ARE HIRED AND
MAYBE EQUIPMENT SHOWS UP ON
SITE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S IT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS, MR. LEONARD
?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
NO OTHER CALLERS ARE INDICATING
TO SPEAK OK, VERY GOOD.
THEN LET&apos;S MOVE ON TO ITEM
SEVEN WHICH ARE IS THE PUBLIC
HEARING SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING
?
&gt;&gt; SORRY I&apos;M GETTING THERE
THE
PACKET STICK TONIGHT FOLKS.
&gt;&gt; OK, WE HAVE TWO NEW QUASI
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED
FOR THE APRIL 5TH MEETING
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION
M&apos;POKO TWO FOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT
A SEVENTY UNIT APARTMENT
COMPLEX CONSISTING OF THREE
BUILDINGS SEVENTY NINE THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED EIGHTY TWO SQUARE
FEET INCLUDING EIGHTY SIX
VEHICLE PARKING SPACES, THIRTY
EIGHT BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
UNDERGROUND FOR MODERATE
RETENTION AND ASSOCIATIVE
UTILITIES ON A 2.5 ACRE SITE
YOU MIGHT NOTE THAT THIS IS
ALSO SCHEDULED FOR A PUBLIC
HEARING THIS EVENING.
UNFORTUNATELY WHEN THE NOTICE
WENT OUT IT HAD AN ERROR IN THE
PARCELS THAT WERE INDICATED AND
ALSO FAILED TO IDENTIFY A
REQUIRED WETLAND USE PERMIT.
SO WE&apos;VE NOTICED THAT FOR THE
FOLLOWING MEETING THAT IS THE
BASIS FOR THE RECOMMENDATION ON
THIS EVENING&apos;S AGENDA.
THEN SECOND PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
NINE PARKING STANDARDS AND
SECTION FIVE POINT ONE SIX
POINT THREE P TRANSIT CORRIDOR
DEVELOPMENTS REGARDING PARKING
STANDARDS IN ORDER TO REDUCE
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE ENCOURAGE
LAND USE TO BE OFFICIALLY
INCENTIVE AND INCENTIVIZE THE
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW RESIDENTIAL
USES, REDUCE THE COST
OF CONSTRUCTING NEW RESIDENTIAL
UNITS AND SUPPORT TRANSIT
SERVICE.
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS INCLUDE
ELIMINATING MINIMUM PARKING
REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL USES,
CONSOLIDATING PARKING USE
CATEGORIES, ELIMINATING SOME
USE CATEGORIES, ELIMINATING THE
ABILITY TO PROVIDE BICYCLE
PARKING OFF SITE, AMENDING THE
WEIGHT LIMIT OF VEHICLES
PROHIBITED FROM PARKING AND
DRIVEWAYS, CHANGING THE
STANDARDS AND FORMATS
OF SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICT
REQUIREMENTS ALREADY IN PLACE
FOR D ONE AND TWO AND ADDING
THE T ONE DISTRICT AND AMENDING
REQUIREMENTS TO ELECTRIC
VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
WE CAN MOVE ON THEN TO ITEM
EIGHT EIGHT WHICH IS OUR
UNFINISHED BUSINESS IF YOU&apos;LL
RECALL AT THE LAST MEETING
BECAUSE OF THE TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTY WE DECIDED TO
POSTPONE THESE BUT NOW THEY&apos;RE
BROKEN INTO TWO DIFFERENT
GROUPS.
SO FIRST WE WILL TAKE ON THE
AMENDMENTS WITHIN THE UDC FOR
THE RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY, USE AN
M1 AND THE MINIMUM LOT SIZE IN
R TO A AND I&apos;M ASSUMING THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO START WITH STAFF
PRESENTATION BEFORE HAVING THE
PUBLIC OPENING THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I THINK COMMISSIONER
LEE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ADDRESS
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER LEE.
&gt;&gt; YEP.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND
RECUSE MYSELF FROM THESE TWO
PARTICULAR DISCUSSIONS AND I&apos;LL
BE BACK FOR THE NEXT THREE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL COME AND GET YOU AT
THE END OF THIS YEAR.
THE PLAN
AND AND YES, WE WILL
START WITH A PRESENTATION FROM
CITY PLANNER ALEXIS DELIO
.
WELL, GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
AND HAS A QUICK UPDATE ON THAT.
&gt;&gt; I CAN&apos;T SEE WHAT YOU SEE.
SO IS THE SLIDE SHOW PRESENTING
AND NOT WE DO NOT SEE THE SLIDE
SHOW VIEW.
OH, BUT YOU SEE SOMETHING WE
SEE SOMETHING UP.
OH HOW ABOUT NOW?
IT LOOKS GREAT.
GO AHEAD AND HAVE A GOOD
EVENING.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE HERE THIS EVENING TO
TALK AGAIN ABOUT SOME HERE YOU
SEE A MEASUREMENT FOR THE
BENEFIT BECAUSE WE HAVE SO MANY
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTY AT THE
LAST MEETING I WILL GO THROUGH
THE PRESENTATION AGAIN IT IS
SHORT.
I&apos;M HAVING A MOMENT OF PANIC.
DID I START?
YES, I STARTED WITH THE CORRECT
AMENDMENTS.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING A TOTAL OF FIVE
I&apos;M GOING TO TALK ABOUT JUST
AMENDMENTS.
TWO RIGHT NOW.
I&apos;M GOING TO TALK ABOUT JUST
THE FIRST IS AN AMENDMENT TO
TWO RIGHT NOW.
THE PRIMARY USE TABLE SECTION
THE FIRST IS AN AMENDMENT TO
IN SECTION FIVE FIFTEEN AND
THE PRIMARY USE TABLE SECTION
THIS AMENDMENT IS TO ALLOW
IN SECTION FIVE FIFTEEN AND
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY USES ONE
THIS AMENDMENT IS TO ALLOW
DISTRICT THIS SLIDE SHOWS HOW
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY USES ONE
THE AMENDMENT WILL LOOK IN THE
DISTRICT THIS SLIDE SHOWS HOW
UDC.
THE AMENDMENT WILL LOOK IN THE
&gt;&gt; I HAVE CIRCLED WHAT IS THE
UDC.
ROLE IN THE COLUMNS OF THE
&gt;&gt; I HAVE CIRCLED WHAT IS THE
TABLE THAT ARE CHANGING SECOND
ROLE IN THE COLUMNS OF THE
AMENDMENT IS RELATED TO TO
TABLE THAT ARE CHANGING SECOND
FAMILY THAT ARE TO A DISTRICT
AMENDMENT IS RELATED TO TO
WHICH IS A TWO FAMILY
FAMILY THAT ARE TO A DISTRICT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT IN
WHICH IS A TWO FAMILY
THIS TABLE TABLE FIVE SEVENTEEN
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT IN
TWO IT PROVIDES THE MINIMUM LOT
THIS TABLE TABLE FIVE SEVENTEEN
AREA MINIMUM LOT AND THE
TWO IT PROVIDES THE MINIMUM LOT
MINIMUM LOT AREA PER DWELLING
AREA MINIMUM LOT AND THE
UNIT.
MINIMUM LOT AREA PER DWELLING
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING THREE CHANGES
UNIT.
FIRST TO REDUCE THE MINIMUM LOT
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING THREE CHANGES
AREA FROM EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE
FIRST TO REDUCE THE MINIMUM LOT
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET TO FIVE
AREA FROM EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET TO FIVE
FEET PROPOSING TO REDUCE THE
HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE
MINIMUM WIDTH FROM SIXTY FEET
FEET PROPOSING TO REDUCE THE
TO FORTY FEET AND THE MINIMUM
MINIMUM WIDTH FROM SIXTY FEET
WHAT AREA PER
DWELLING UNIT TO
TWO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET.
THESE CHANGES WILL BRING THIS
DISTRICT MORE IN LINE WITH THE
R AND THEY ARE THE SAME AS WE
ARE ONE THE DISTRICT THEY ARE
TO A DISTRICT WAS INTENDED TO
BE A HIGHER DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT WITH THE SAME
CHARACTERISTICS AS SOME OF THE
SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICTS AND WE
BELIEVE THESE CHANGES WILL
BRING IT MORE IN LINE WITH THAT
INTENT AND ALSO ADDRESS SOME
OF THE NONCONFORMITY THAT WE
FIND IN THE RTA DISTRICT HERE
YOU CAN IS A TABLE AND THIS IS
AN ATTACHMENT IN THE PACKET
THEY CHOSE THE ARE ONE C OR ONE
D AND ARE ONE IN THE ZONING
DISTRICTS AND THEY&apos;RE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
THOSE ARE ONE DISTRICTS ARE
SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICTS.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE CHOOSE ARE ALSO
LISTED HERE PLUS THEY ARE FOR C
WHICH IS A MULTIFAMILY DISTRICT
BUT AGAIN IT IS SUPPOSED TO
HAVE THE PROPORTIONALITY OR
PROPORTIONS OF THE HIGHER
DENSITY SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICTS
.
THIS IS A MAP IT&apos;S VERY SMALL
BUT THIS MAP OF THE CITY AND
THE ORANGE BOWL ARE THE CURRENT
AREAS THAT ARE ZONED R TO A U
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE THAT
THERE&apos;S A BIG POCKET IN THE
WATER HILL NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH
AND WEST OF DOWNTOWN ALSO
THERE&apos;S POCKETS JUST DIRECTLY
WEST OF DOWNTOWN ON THE OLD
WEST SIDE AND SOME OF THE
MIDDLE WEST NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THERE&apos;S A FEW HEPBURN&apos;S PARK
AREA SOUTH OF CAMPUS ALSO I
SHOULD MENTION THAT THE
BROADWAY AREA AND THE IN THE
TREVER PONTIAC TRAIL TREVER
AREA ARE POCKETS OF ART TO A I
HOPE THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS CAN SEE THIS BUT
IF NOT YOU CAN SEE THE COLORS
RIGHT NOW ARE TWO BLOCKS.
IT&apos;S ACTUALLY ABOUT THIRTY NINE
PERCENT COMPLY WITH MINIMUM
WHAT AREA REQUIREMENTS AND
ABOUT THIRTY TWO PERCENT I&apos;M
SORRY I SAID IT BACKWARDS.
THIRTY NINE PERCENT TO COMPLY
WITH THE MINIMUM LOT WHIP I
MEAN SIXTY ONE PERCENT DO NOT
COMPLY THEY ARE NOT SIXTY FEET
WIDE OR MORE.
THIRTY TWO PERCENT COMPLY WITH
THE WHAT AREA BUT SIXTY EIGHT
PERCENT DON&apos;T MEANING SIXTY
EIGHT PERCENT OF THEM ARE EIGHT
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OR LESS
WITH THESE CHANGES WHERE WE&apos;RE
BETTER THAN FLIPFLOPPING THOSE
PERCENTAGES WILL BECOME
THIRTEEN PERCENT NONCONFORMING
MEANING EIGHTY SEVEN PERCENT
COMPLIANT AND WHAT SIZE WILL
BECOME TWENTY SEVEN PERCENT
COMPLIANCE NONCOMPLIANCE AND
SEVENTY THREE PERCENT
COMPLIANCE.
&gt;&gt; THE LAST MEETING PLANNING
COMMISSIONER ASKED WHAT WOULD
IT TAKE TO GET DOWN TO ALMOST
ZERO NON CONFORMITY SO THAT THE
HUGE MAJORITY WOULD BE
CONFORMING AND A DEEPER DOVE
REVEAL THAT OUR DATA IS NOT
GOOD ENOUGH TO PINPOINT THAT
NUMBER.
WE CAN KEEP WORKING ON IT BUT
IT WILL BE SOON.
THIS CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION
COMPONENT.
GIVE ME ONE SECOND AND WHEN WE
CHECK MY REPORT MENTIONED IN
THE REPORT THIS IS ACTUALLY A
PART OF A PACKAGE OF FIVE
AMENDMENTS THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCE INCLUDES ALL FIVE THE
MOTION THAT WE HAVE SUGGESTED
FOR YOU MOVES FORWARD TWO
OF THEM AND WE&apos;LL FOLLOW THIS
UP WITH THE OTHERS.
&gt;&gt; BOTH OF THESE AMENDMENTS ARE
ONE OF THESE AMENDMENTS WAS
REQUESTED BY THE PUBLIC AND ONE
AMENDMENT IS PROPOSED AND SET
FORTH BY STEPS.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
FOR BOTH OF THEM AND THEY HAVE
BEEN DISCUSSED BY THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL STOP NOW BUT I&apos;M HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; BEFORE WE GET TO QUESTIONS
FOR YOU, WE&apos;LL OPEN UP THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSAL THESE TWO PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO THE UDC.
SO SPECIFICALLY THE PROPOSAL TO
RELATE IT TO PERMITTED USES IN
THE M1 DISTRICT AND THE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS OF THE AR
TO A DISTRICT AS BEFORE WILL
FIRST CALL ON FOLKS THAT ARE
HERE IN THE AUDIENCE AND THEN
THOSE WHO HAVE JOINED REMOTELY.
IF YOU HAVE JOINED REMOTELY AND
YOU&apos;VE ALREADY DIALED IN, YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE TO INDICATE
YOUR INTEREST IN PARTICIPATING
IN THE PUBLIC HEARING.
YOU CAN USE THE RAISED HAND
BUTTON IF YOU JOIN THROUGH THE
WEBLINK OR IF YOU&apos;RE WATCHING
NOW THE CALL IN NUMBER IS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND OUR
MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEONARD, AGAIN WE&apos;LL KEEP
AN EYE ON THOSE WHO&apos;VE RAISED
THEIR HANDS.
I&apos;M CALLING ON YOU BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR TELEPHONE
NUMBER OR THE NAME THAT YOU USE
TO JOIN THROUGH ZOOME DO PLEASE
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND IF YOU&apos;LL HAVE UP TO THREE
MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU COULD
PLEASE START YOUR COMMENTS WITH
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FIRST
I&apos;LL OPEN IT UP TO THOSE HERE.
ANY INTEREST IN PROVIDING
PUBLIC COMMENT DURING THE
PUBLIC HEARING?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, MR. LEONARD, IS
THERE ANYONE ONLINE?
YES, THERE IS
.
PRIDEMORE YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BRADWELL ASSOCIATES,
ARCHITECTS ARE THERE TO URGE
THE APPLICATION.
ALSO CONSIDER REDUCING YOUR SET
BACK OF THE ARCHWAY TO START
THE DEEP.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHERS, MR. LENNART
COLOR
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH FIVE THREE FOUR YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; MORGANTOWN STOLLBERG CALLING
FROM LOWER COUNTERNARRATIVE.
AS MANY OF YOU MAY KNOW, ONE
OF THE HATS I WEAR IS AS A
PROPERTY MANAGER AND BOTH MY
OWN INVESTMENT GROUP AND FOR
PEOPLE OTHER PEOPLE AS WELL WE
MANAGE A NUMBER OF DUPLEXES.
WE LIKE THEM.
WE FOUND THEM TO BE GREAT WAYS
FOR THEM AS BROKER, GREAT WAYS
FOR OWNER OCCUPANCY OF ONE HALF
WHICH YOU PRACTICE FOR PEOPLE
TO GET A START IN HOME
OWNERSHIP.
THAT&apos;S VERY ADVANTAGEOUS.
SO I&apos;M DEFINITELY IN FAVOR
OF DUPLEXES GIRL AND I WILL
DEFINITELY PERSONALLY BENEFIT
FROM THESE CHANGES.
WE WILL GET MORE YIELD
PRIORITIZING PROPERTIES SO I
DON&apos;T MIND DISCLOSING THAT THE
SAME GOES FOR SOME PEOPLE THAT
WE MANAGE PROPERTIES FOR THAT
WE BUT I HAVE NO OWNERSHIP
INTEREST IN I DO WANT TO
MENTION A COUPLE OF THINGS
ABOUT IT IS COMPARED TO EIGHTY
FOR EXAMPLE IN THE ZONING
DISTRICT PEOPLE KNOW THAT IT&apos;S
ON OUR TWO AND THE THAT SIZE
MIGHT NOT HAVE ALLOWED THEM TO
HAVE TWO UNITS.
PEOPLE IN THE GENERAL AREA
WOULD HAVE EXPECTED AND
RECOGNIZE THAT IT WASN&apos;T OUR
TWO.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S ALL THAT LESS
SURPRISE HERE THAN THERE WAS IN
THE CITY.
YOU WHERE WE ALLOWED A SECOND
HOME ON LOTS OF THE 800 SQUARE
DEPENDING ON THE LOT SIZE NOT
NECESSARILY EXPECTED BY THE
NEIGHBORS IN THAT CASE.
&gt;&gt; IN THAT SENSE I FIND THIS
MORE APPROPRIATE.
I WISH WE HAVE DONE THIS FIRST
AVENUE MIGHT HAVE HELPED OPEN
SOME DOORS TO PEOPLE
UNDERSTANDING WHAT IT MIGHT
MEAN TO HAVE ADDITIONAL UNITS
WHERE THEY HAVE BEEN
ANTICIPATED BY ZONING.
THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CARLA.
&gt;&gt; WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH FOUR FOUR ZERO YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; YES.
GOOD EVENING PLANNING
COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS LOUISE LUCAS.
I HAVE A RESIDENCE AT NINE ZERO
NINE BARTON DRIVE BUT I ALSO
OWN A PROPERTY AT 14 42 PONTIAC
TRIL WHICH IS WHICH FALLS UNDER
OUR TO A ZONING MY CONCERN
WOULD BE WELL FIRST OF ALL I&apos;M
IN SUPPORT OF LOWERING THE THE
AMOUNT OF SQUARE FOOTAGE THAT
NEEDS TO BE PUT INTO THE ZONING
BUT ALSO I MEAN I WOULD I&apos;M
ENTERTAINING THE NOTION
OF BUILDING A FOURPLEX ON THAT
PROPERTY SO YOU KNOW HOW WOULD
YOUR PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS DEAL
WITH THAT?
I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW BUT THANK
YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND YES, I&apos;M
IN SUPPORT OF OF YOUR
RESOLUTIONS HERE.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS ARE
INDICATING DESIRE TO SPEAK.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT THEN I&apos;LL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY AND THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AS PROPOSED AND GENERALLY
DESCRIBED AS TABLE FIVE POINT
FIFTEEN DASH ONE TO ALLOW
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY USE IN THE
M1 LIMITED INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICT
AND TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
DASH TO TO DECREASE THE MINIMUM
LOT SIZE MINIMUM LOT AREA PER
DWELLING UNIT AND MINIMUM LOT
WIDTH IN THE R TO A TWO FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
MOVE THAT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONERS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER CLARKE DISCUSSION.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAYING
HOW THRILLED I AM TO SEE THIS.
I HAVE BEEN HOPING THAT WE
WOULD DO THIS AND REQUESTING
THAT WE DO THIS FOR A WHILE SO
I&apos;M REALLY DELIGHTED THAT I
KNOW THAT A LOT OF WORK AND
THOUGHT GOES INTO THIS AND I&apos;M
SO HAPPY TO SEE IT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO KNOW THE
RATIONALE FOR RETAINING A
LARGER SIDE SETBACK FOR OUR
TWOHEY THAN WE REQUIRE IN OUR
ONE D SO IT&apos;S SIX FOOT UM FOR
OUR ONE D AND IT REMAINS TEN
FEET FOR OUR TO A AND SIMILARLY
THE RATIONALE FOR HOLDING ONTO
THE THE LARGER MINIMUM REAR
SETBACK SO WE&apos;RE TWENTY FEET
SETBACK REAR IRWANDI AND THIRTY
AND R TO A SO THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY
ONE QUESTION AS IT&apos;S ABOUT OR
WHATEVER IT&apos;S ABOUT WHY DID WE
RETAIN THAT.
MY SECOND QUESTION IS IF
SOMEONE HAD AITE ZONED R TO A
AND THEY WANTED TO PUT A
FOURPLEX THERE IS THERE A PATH
FOR THEM TO DO THAT?
CLEARLY THIS DOES NOT PERMIT
THAT THIS PERMITS DUPLEXES BUT
IS THERE A PATH FOR THEM TO DO
THAT?
AND IF IT&apos;S TOO LONG AN ANSWER
WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO TALK ABOUT IT
.
I CAN I CAN SPEAK TO THOSE
FIRST REGARDING THE SETBACKS.
I BELIEVE THAT THAT WE DID NOT
ADDRESS THE SIDE EFFECTS
BECAUSE WE WERE FOCUSED ON THE
INTENT STATEMENT AND
NONCONFORMITY AND SPECIFICALLY
WHAT NONCONFORMITY THERE MAY I
DON&apos;T HAVE ANY DATA BUT YOU
THERE ARE THREE KINDS
OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS A
NON CONFORMING USE, A NON
CONFORMING LOT AND THEN A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
&gt;&gt; NEUROFOCUS WITH THESE ON
NONCONFORMING LOTS AND SO TO
MAKE A LOT THEMSELVES COME INTO
CONFORMANCE WE WERE FOCUSED ON
THE LOT AREA DIMENSION THE
EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET DOWN TO FIVE
THOUSAND AND A LOT WITH NOW THE
NEXT LEVEL MIGHT BE AND WE CAN
CERTAINLY DISCUSS BUT CHANGING
THE SETBACKS WOULD THEN BE A
CONVERSATION ABOUT REDUCING
POSSIBLE NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WOULD BE THE SHORT
ANSWER.
IT&apos;S MORE JUST MORE OF A WHY.
WHAT WAS OUR BACKGROUND ABOUT
THAT ONE?
THE FOUR CLASSES THE AR TWO A
DISTRICT DOES NOT ALLOW A
FOURPLEX.
&gt;&gt; YOU COULD HAVE FOUR UNITS ON
THE LOT BUT IT WOULD HAVE TO BE
TWO DUPLEXES AND THAT&apos;S JUST
THE RULES THAT WE HAVE.
IT IS A TO THE MAXIMUM BUILDING
COULD BE A TWO FAMILY DWELLING
DUPLEX BUT THERE IS A PATH FOR
GETTING FOUR UNITS BUT AGAIN IT
WOULD HAVE TO BE TWO DUPLEXES
OR HOWEVER MANY NUMBER
OF BUILDINGS THAT THE AREA FOR
DWELLING UNIT CAN SUPPORT.
BUT EACH BUILDING CAN ONLY HAVE
A MAXIMUM OF TWO.
&gt;&gt; IF I COULD JUST ADD TO THAT
ALEXIS MENTIONED THE DATA AND
AND SO I WANT TO CAVEAT THIS IS
THAT A LOT OF OUR DATA IS
ACTUALLY BASED ON TAX PARCELS
WHICH ISN&apos;T ALWAYS THE SAME AS
LOTS OF TAX PARCELS FROM A LOT
OF HOW WE ORGANIZE PROPERTY
DATA BECAUSE THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT
FOR HOW THE CITY COMMUNICATES
SENDS OUT INFORMATION THAT SAID
WE&apos;VE DONE OUR BEST TO SORT
OF SLICE SOME OF THAT DATA.
IT&apos;S IMPERFECT BUT WE HAVE A
OF ABOUT SIXTEEN HUNDRED LOTS
THAT ARE ZONED OR EXCUSE ME
ABOUT SEVENTEEN HUNDRED SIXTEEN
NINETY THREE ACCORDING TO MY
COUNT AGAIN BEST DATA I GOT
THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
OF THOSE LOTS ARE GREATER THAN
10000 SQUARE FEET WHICH WOULD
POTENTIALLY OPEN UP THAT AVENUE
THAT ALEXIS WAS TALKING ABOUT
OR CONVERSELY WOULD ALLOW
POTENTIALLY A LOT TO BE SPLIT
INTO TWO SEPARATE LOT.
SO TO GIVE YOU A SENSE OF THAT
SCALE ABOUT THREE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY LOTS IN THE CITY OUT
OF SEVEN AROUND SEVENTEEN
HUNDRED MIGHT BE ELIGIBLE FOR
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
SO THE THE I UNDERSTAND
ENTIRELY YOUR RATIONALE FOR
SAYING THAT WE&apos;RE NOT LOOKING
AT NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
WE DIDN&apos;T THINK ABOUT SETBACK.
THE REASON WHY IT WAS INTUITIVE
TO ME TO ASK ABOUT IT WAS THE
SENTENCE IN INTENT STATEMENT
FOR ARE TO A TWO FAMILY.
THE DISTRICT IS INTENDED TO
CREATE AREAS OF ESSENTIALLY
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
CHARACTER UTILIZING TWO SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING YOUTHS THAT ARE
ATTACHED EITHER SIDE TO SIDE OR
VERTICALLY.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE LOOKING TO MIMIC
THE AA1 DISTRICT I SUPPOSE OR A
LAY PERSON WHICH IS WHAT I AM
WOULD THINK THAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING
TO TO TO GET CLOSER TO THE
CHARACTERISTICS OF OF THE
SINGLE FAMILY DISTRICT.
AND SO TO ME THEN IT WOULD MAKE
SENSE THAT WE WOULD ALSO MODIFY
WE IT MIGHT MAKE SENSE THAT WE
WOULD ALSO MODIFY THE SIDE AND
REAR SETBACKS UNLESS THERE WERE
A REASON THAT WE FELT THAT A
GREATER SETBACK WOULD BE NEEDED
IF SOMEONE WERE TO PUT A DUPLEX
ON AN R TO A LOT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
THE ONLY REASON THAT MY
THINKING IS THERE.
BUT I CAN TELL FROM WHAT YOU
SAID EARLIER, MR LEO, THAT THIS
ISN&apos;T LIKE SOMETHING WE COULD
TAKE WHITE OUT TO AND CHANGE
THOSE NUMBERS.
IT WOULD REQUIRE TIME AND
ENERGY AND DEBATE AND SO I
DON&apos;T THINK I WANT TO CARRY IT
FURTHER UNLESS YOU SAID OH
YEAH, I&apos;VE JUST GOT A BOTTLE
OF WHITE OUT HERE AND I&apos;LL DO
IT FOR YOU.
WELL, I WOULD RESPOND JUST OFF
THE CUFF THAT I&apos;M A CAUTIOUS
PLANNER.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS NO REASON NOT TO
PERHAPS PUT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CAN TALK ABOUT THAT
TONIGHT AND AND CHANGE THE SET
BACKS.
&gt;&gt; BUT MY ADVICE WOULD BE TO
EITHER TABLE OR MOVE FORWARD
WITH WHAT IF ON THE FLOOR AND
WE BE AND THEN WE CAN YOU KNOW,
THE NEXT ORDINANDS REVISIONS
COMMITTEE MEETING JUST ANOTHER
AMENDMENT JUST MOSTLY OBVIOUSLY
BECAUSE MY NATURE IS NOT
AMENDMENTS ON THE FLOOR BUT I
THINK THAT YOU BRING A GREAT
YOU BRING UP A GREAT POINT
PERHAPS MAYBE WE SHOULD HAVE
LOOKED A LITTLE MORE
HOLISTICALLY.
I WOULD MENTION ONE THING AND
IT&apos;S A REASON FOR NOT CHANGING
TONIGHT BUT I DO KNOW FROM
WORKING WITH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT WE ARE ONE AS A
THREE FOOT SIDE SET BACK
MINIMUM TIME AND SO PLANNERS AT
THE ZONING OFFICIALS WILL SIGN
OFF ON A BUILDING THAT IS THREE
FEET FROM THE SIDE STEP BACK.
&gt;&gt; BUT THE BUILDING
CODE IMPOSES A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF MORE RESTRICTIONS
WHEN A BUILDING IS THAT CLOSE
TO THE PROPERTY LINE AND IT
REDUCES OR MAKES IT MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT HAVE WINDOWS.
&gt;&gt; AND SO IF YOU WANT WINDOWS
ON THE SIDE OF YOUR BUILDING
YOU MIGHT WANT TO VOLUNTARILY
PUT THAT BUILDING AT FIVE FEET
OR GREATER SET THAT THAT IS A
REASON TO KEEP THE FIVE FOOT
SET BACK OF THE ARCHWAY
EXISTING THAT THE REAR SET BACK
IS A DIFFERENT STORY.
THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE IN
BUILDING CODES BETWEEN BUILDING
PLACEMENT TWENTY OR THIRTY FEET
FROM THE BACK LINE RATHER THAN
DRAWING ON.
THAT&apos;S MY PROFESSIONAL OPINION
FOR THE BOARD BUT I AM YOUR
HUMBLE SERVANT IN THIS REGARD.
GO AHEAD MR LEINERT.
&gt;&gt; I AGREE WITH ALEXIS.
THANKS FOR THAT RESPONSE ALEXIS
.
I WOULD JUST I WOULD JUST ADD
THAT AS A REMINDER THE UDC IS
LIVING I THINK THAT AND I WOULD
I WOULD POINT OUT AS I CAVEAT
IT ALL THE DATA ABOUT WHAT SIZE
AND LOT WIDTH THAT DATA IS NOT
PERFECT.
BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR WE
DEFINITELY I CAN&apos;T TELL YOU
OF THOSE SEVENTEEN HUNDRED
PARCELS WHICH ONES HAVE WHICH
SETBACKS AND SO THAT WOULD BE
MORE OF SORT OF A HYPOTHETICAL
EXERCISE OF A TYPICAL LOT
OF THESE DIMENSIONS UNDER THIS
PROPOSED SCENARIO A 40 FOOT
WIDE LOT WOULD STILL GIVE YOU A
30 FOOT WIDE BUILDING ENVELOPE
WITH THOSE EXISTING FIVE FOOT
SET BACKS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S ADEQUATE
BUT I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT THAT WOULD BE EVEN THAT
WOULD NOT BE CHALLENGING DATA
FOR US TO BE ABLE TO BRING A
LOT OF DETAIL ABOUT OUR
EXISTING LOTS THAT WOULD BE
IMPOSSIBLE DATA FOR US TO BRING
FOR OUR EXISTING LAWS AS TO
WHAT THE EXISTING SETBACKS ARE.
IT WOULD BE AGAIN IT WOULD BE
MORE OF AN EXERCISE OF ON A
HYPOTHETICAL A LOT OF THIS
DIMENSION.
WHAT WOULD THAT LOOK LIKE?
SO ANYTHING ELSE, COMMISSIONER
?
ANY OTHERS GO HAD COMMISSIONER
APRON&apos;S I WONDERED I ALSO HAD
THE SAME QUESTION ABOUT THE
REAR STEP BACK AND MAYBE BEFORE
WE HEARD FROM ALEXIS AND BRETT
WAS GOING TO PROPOSE AN
AMENDMENT ON TO THE MOTION BUT
I WILL ALL WITHHOLD THAT.
BUT I WONDERED IF THERE&apos;S
ANOTHER WAY TO THINK ABOUT IT
WHICH IS
NOT ABOUT CONFORMITY
BUT ABOUT, YOU KNOW, INCREASING
ALLOWABLE DENSITY.
SO THE 30 FOOT WITH IS SEEMS
VIABLE BUT THE LOT DEPTH WE
DON&apos;T KNOW AND IT&apos;S PROBABLY
MORE VARIABLE BUT THAT EXTRA
TEN FEET WOULD MAKE EITHER SIDE
UP OR DOWN OR SIDE BY SIDE
GETTING TWO UNITS ON THERE MORE
FEASIBLE.
SO I THINK I WOULD I WOULD VOTE
TO SUPPORT THAT CHANGE WHETHER
IT&apos;S TONIGHT OR AT A FUTURE
DATE.
OTHER COMMENTS QUESTIONS.
GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU FOR
LOOKING INTO MY CONFUSING
REQUEST FROM A COUPLE OF WEEKS
AGO AS A ONE MORE QUESTION ALSO
RELATED TO THOSE PIE CHARTS, A
LOT OF SUPPORT.
&gt;&gt; SO IF I&apos;M READING IT RIGHT
SO 87 PERCENT MAKING THE
CHANGES EIGHTY SEVEN PERCENT
WOULD BE BROUGHT IN TO
COMPLIANCE BY LOT WITH SEVENTY
THREE PERCENT BY LOT SIZE.
I ASSUME THAT IF ONE IS STILL
NON-COMPLIANT THAT WHOLE LOT
WOULD BE CONSIDERED NON OUT
OF COMPLIANCE.
SO WHAT IS THE OVER.
IS THAT RIGHT?
YOU ARE NODDING YES.
YES OK SO WHAT&apos;S THE FIRST
THING HARD I KNOW DO YOU HAVE A
SENSE OF LIKE SO YOU KNOW THE
SEVENTY THREE PERCENT THAT
WOULD NOW BE IN COMPLIANCE
PALLETIZE ARE ALL OF THOSE ALSO
BILAT WITH DO YOU HAVE A SENSE
I&apos;M SAYING LIKE OF OVERLAP
BETWEEN THOSE TWO NUMBERS I
DON&apos;T HAVE A SENSE TO JUST BE
INTERESTING.
I THINK IT WOULD JUST BE
INTERESTING TO KNOW LIKE IT
WOULD BE WE WE COULD RUN THAT I
DON&apos;T HAVE IT FOR YOU TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, BUT I DON&apos;T NEED IT
TONIGHT WITH THE REST OF OUR
DATA WE COULD MAKE THAT
COMPARISON.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO YEAH IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO IF WE
DON&apos;T END UP CHANGING ANYTHING
WITH RESPECT TONIGHT BRING THAT
BACK MAYBE IF THAT DOES COME TO
ANOTHER RC MEETING IT WOULD BE
INTERESTING JUST TO SORT
OF LOOK AT LIKE HOW IS IT YOU
KNOW LIKE THOSE EIGHTY SEVEN
PERCENT ARE NOW COMPLIANT BY
LOT WITH BUT LIKE THEY&apos;RE NOT
COMPLIANT BY SOMETHING ELSE SO
THEY&apos;RE NOT REALLY COMPLIANT.
JUST BE INTERESTING.
THANKS.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS I&apos;LL CHIME
IN WITH COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
I AGREE THAT THE REAR SETBACK
IS WHAT I WOULD BE MOST
INTERESTED THAT I THINK WE&apos;D
HAVE THE BIGGEST IMPACT THE
KIND OF SIDE SETBACKS WE&apos;VE
HEARD THIS BEFORE IN OUR
DISCUSSION ABOUT ADIEUS IN
TERMS OF EVEN THOUGH EVEN
THOUGH ACCESSORY STRUCTURES ARE
ALLOWED TO BE THREE FEET AND IN
ALL OF THE DISTRICTS FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE THAT IF IT&apos;S
HABITED THAT THERE ARE
ADDITIONAL BUILDING CODE ISSUES
WITH THAT.
SO I THINK FIVE FEET SEEMS
REASONABLE TO MAINTAIN ON THE
SIDES BUT I THINK I THINK
CHANGING THE REAR WOULD ALSO BE
FINE.
I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S NOT A
DRAMATIC CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; SO MAKING IT ON THE FLOOR
MAKES ME FEEL RELATIVELY
COMFORTABLE.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION STAFF WOULD
ACTUALLY BRING TO THAT BUT I
ALSO LIKE THINK THAT TO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
POINT PASSING THIS TONIGHT SO
THAT WE GET MORE EVEN IF WE
DON&apos;T KNOW THE FULL TOTALITY
OF HOW MANY MORE AND IN
COMPLIANCE ON BOTH MEASURES
GETTING MORE INTO COMPLIANCE I
THINK IS HELPFUL.
&gt;&gt; AND IF OTHERS FEEL LIKE THAT
PART SHOULD WAIT, I WOULD BE
FINE WITH THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WOULD ALSO JUST SIGNAL
THAT I AM TOTALLY COMFORTABLE
MAKING AN AMENDMENT TO HAVE THE
REAR SETBACK CHANGED TONIGHT
COMMISSIONER BRANDELL, I&apos;M IN
SUPPORT OF IT TOO BUT I FEEL
LIKE WE SHOULD BECAUSE I THINK
THERE&apos;S ALWAYS ALWAYS
UNINTENDED THINGS UNTIL YOU GET
INTO ACTUALLY CHANGING THE
CODE AND ALL THE DOMINO EFFECTS
THAT HAPPENED, I FEEL LIKE WE
SHOULD YOU KNOW, ALEXIS IS THE
ONE THAT&apos;S BEEN WORKING ON
THIS.
SHE UNDERSTANDS JUST HOW
COMPLEX AND INTERTWINED ALL
OF THIS IS AND I WOULD FEEL A
LOT BETTER.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO DO THIS ON THE
FLY BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THEY
NEED TO BE ABLE TO DO THEIR DUE
DILIGENCE AND I DON&apos;T WANT TO
LIKE UNWIND IT AND THEN HAVE
LIKE JUST HAVE OTHER THINGS GO
AWRY BECAUSE OF THAT.
SO I&apos;M GENERALLY SUPPORTIVE
OF IT TOO.
BUT I&apos;D LIKE TO GIVE THEM THE
TIME TO BE ABLE TO DO WHAT THEY
NEED TO DO TO FEEL CONFIDENT
ABOUT MOVING IT FORWARD.
I WOULD DEFINITELY BE
SUPPORTIVE AND INTERESTED IN
THAT BUT I THINK THAT WE CAN
SAVE THAT TOO.
BUT I JUST WANT TO GIVE THEM
TIME TO BE ABLE TO DO LET THE
PROFESSIONALS DO WHAT THEY DO
AND AND I TRUST THAT ALEXIS
KNOWS THAT YOU KNOW, IT WOULD
BE GOOD TO TO WAIT ON THAT ONE
OTHER COMMISSIONERS GO AHEAD,
COMMISSIONER.
SO I PLAY THE OTHER SIDE WITH
ALL THE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT OUR
WORK PLAN BUT I DON&apos;T LIKE THE
OWNERS AMOUNT OF TIME TO STEP
IN LIKE THIS COMING BACK ON THE
AGENDA FOR CHANGE AND I THINK
LOOKING AT SEVERAL OF THE MAPS
AS WELL LIKE THEY SHARE
BACKYARDS IN MANY OF THESE
DISTRICTS LIKE WE DON&apos;T KNOW
EXACTLY ALL OF THEM BUT I ALSO
TAKE STEPS POINT THAT THIS
WOULD BE KIND OF A SPECULATIVE
SCENARIO THAT WE CAN&apos;T GATHER
THE SAME AMOUNT OF DATA AND SO
THIS SEEMS LIKE A PURPOSEFUL
MATCH TO THE INTENT OF LOOKING
TOWARDS THE SINGLE FAMILY
DISTRICTS AS KIND OF A
TRANSITION ONE IN THAT THIS
WOULD THEN MATCH IN THAT 20
FOOT STEP BACK TO BE KIND
OF COMPLEMENTARY.
I DON&apos;T SEE WITH ANY KIND
OF CRITICAL BACKLASH TO THAT
CHANGE IN ANY OF THESE
PROJECTS.
SO I&apos;D BE IN SUPPORT
OF CHANGING THIS EVENING IF AN
AMENDMENT LOOKING FORWARD TO
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO MAKE SUCH
A MOTION GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
BEFORE THAT MAYBE IT WOULD HELP
ME TO HEAR FROM ALEXIS AND OR
BRETT WHAT THE DUE DILIGENCE
WOULD BE THAT YOU WOULD DO TO
INFORM THIS CONVERSATION IF WE
WERE TO POSTPONE THAT AMENDMENT
.
I&apos;LL START AND ALEXIS, PLEASE
CORRECT ME IF YOU WOULD
APPROACH IT DIFFERENTLY, BUT I
WOULD PROBABLY COME UP WITH
SOME SORT OF HYPOTHETICAL LOTS
AND JUST SHOW THE DIFFERENCE.
JUST DOING SOME MATH HERE LIKE
A SORT OF A MINIMUM THAT WAS
FORTY FEET WIDE AND MEETING THE
5000 SQUARE FEET WOULD BE ABOUT
A IF I&apos;M IF MY MATH IS RIGHT
IT&apos;D OF FORTY BY ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY FIVE FOOT LOT WITH
THE CURRENT 30 FOOT AND
PRESUMING A TWENTY FIVE FOOT
FRONT SET BACK THAT WOULD GIVE
YOU ABOUT A THIRTY BY SEVENTY
BUILDING ENVELOPE WHICH IS
ABOUT 2100 SQUARE FEET.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD PROBABLY APPROACH
IT BY SHOWING YOU SOME EXAMPLES
SIMILAR TO THAT WHERE I WOULD
SHOW HOW DIFFERENT LOT SIZES
MIGHT BE CONFIGURED AND HOW
THAT SETBACKS WOULD CHANGE THE
BILLABLE FOOTPRINT OF OF
OF THAT AND AS OF COURSE WENT
LARGER FROM THAT, YOU KNOW, YOU
WOULD JUST HAVE TO MAKE THOSE
ADJUSTMENTS.
BUT I THINK I&apos;M GOING TO I&apos;M
SORT OF HALF THROWING THIS OUT
AS A QUESTION TO ALEXIS IF SHE
AGREES BUT GENERALLY WITHOUT A
CHANGE TO THE SIDE YARD YOU&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT LOSING TEN FEET
IN WIDTH AND WITH THE EXISTING
FRONT AND REAR PROBABLY LESS
THAN 30 PLUS 25 BECAUSE MOST
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE AN
ESTABLISHED FRONT YARD SET BACK
WHERE WE&apos;RE GOING TO TAKE THE
AVERAGE BUT PROBABLY THAT&apos;S THE
OUTSIDE LARGEST LOSS OF WHAT TO
SET BACK WHERE YOU COULDN&apos;T
BUILD IN IS GOING TO BE 55
FEET.
SO ALEXIS, HOW WOULD HOW WOULD
YOU APPROACH IT FROM THAT SAME
EXACT AND THEN JUST TALKING
WITH OUR DEVELOPMENT TEAM
DOUBLE CHECKING WITH BUILDING
IF THEY KNOW HAVE ANY ISSUES
THAT WE SHOULD BE CONCERNED
ABOUT AND I PROBABLY WOULD ALSO
DOUBLE CHECK THE DO A LITTLE
BIT OF RESEARCH INTO SOME
OF THE ORIGINAL PROJECTS WHERE
WE DO FIND OUR TWO WAY.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WAS THE PRIVATE LATSIS
AND WHAT WERE SOME OF THE THE
OLDER ARCHWAY SET BACKS AND THE
STANDARDS IN THE FOR EXAMPLE,
IF WE FIND THAT THESE SETBACKS
ON THE SIDE HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
FIVE FEET, I DON&apos;T SEE HOW I
WOULD MAYBE HELP TOO MUCH TO
REDUCE THEM DOWN TO THREE FEET.
BUT IF THREE FEET MAYBE WAS THE
THE NORM AT THE TIME MOST WERE
DEVELOPED THERE COULD BE GAINS
THERE SAME THE CONCEPT OF THE
REAR BASICALLY I WOULD JUST
TAKE A LITTLE TIME TO REVIEW
WHAT DATA DO WE DO HAVE AND
BASICALLY JUST SLEEP ON IT TO
MAKE SURE WE&apos;VE THOUGHT IT
THROUGH
ANY ONE ELSE.
&gt;&gt; SEE, GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
WHICH I&apos;M AMBIVALENT EITHER WAY
BUT I DO WANT TO THROW SUPPORT
AROUND DOING THE AMENDMENT
TONIGHT IF THERE&apos;S TABLE
AGREEMENT JUST SO THAT WE CAN
GET TO THE OTHER THINGS THAT WE
NEED TO GET TO AND LATER I&apos;M
GOING TO ASK IF WE CAN REZONE
ALL OF OUR EXISTING AH ONE AYES
TO A HALF TO A ANYWAY SO THIS
JUST FEELS FORTUITOUS FOR ME.
SO I WOULD I WOULD RECOMMEND WE
AMEND AT THE TABLE TODAY AND
THEN CONTINUE ON.
&gt;&gt; SO ARE YOU PROPOSING YOU&apos;RE
YOU&apos;RE MAKING A MOTION TO
AMEND.
&gt;&gt; NO NO I WASN&apos;T MAKING THE
EMOTION.
I WAS JUST WEIGHING IN AS
ANOTHER VOICE IN FAVOR
OF SOMEONE WHO WILL MAKE THE
MOTION I WILL SECONDED ONCE
ONCE IT HITS
THE TABLE.
&gt;&gt; SO DOES ANYONE WANT TO MAKE
THAT MOTION?
ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé IS MAKING
MOTION.
I MAKE THE MOTION TO AMEND THE
MINIMUM REWRITE SET BACK TO
TWENTY FEET FOR THE HOUR TO A
DISTRICT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
SILVER SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
DISCUSSION OF THE MOTION TO
AMEND.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
GIVE BRANDELL I&apos;M UNCOMFORTABLE
SUPPORTING IT.
SO JUST SO PEOPLE KNOW WHERE I
AM I JUST WANT I&apos;D KIND OF LIKE
TO SEE I DON&apos;T WANT TO I DON&apos;T
THINK WE NEED TO TAKE UP THREE
MEETINGS WITH THIS.
I FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD BUT I WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE SOME SENSE OF THE
IMPLICATIONS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S JUST WHY I&apos;M
JUST LETTING FOLKS KNOW.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER DISH.
I WANT TO SECOND WHAT
COMMISSIONER RANDALL SAID
PRECISELY BECAUSE UNLESS I
MISUNDERSTOOD OR MISHEARD IT
DIDN&apos;T SOUND LIKE THIS WAS
GOING TO TAKE A LOT OF STAFF
TIME TO BRING FORWARD THE DATA
THAT STAFF CARES ABOUT OR FEELS
COULD SHED LIGHT ON THIS.
AND THAT BEING THE CASE, I YOU
KNOW, WHEN I HEAR SOMEONE SAY
I&apos;M CAUTIOUS AND THEY ARE THE
PROFESSIONAL IN THE ROOM AND
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT A YEAR&apos;S DELAY OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT, I FEEL LIKE
DEFERRING TO STAFF SO BUT I
WOULDN&apos;T BE UNHAPPY IF THERE
WAS SO MUCH SUPPORT FOR THIS
AMENDMENT THAT WE MIGHT AS WELL
YOU KNOW, BUT BUT I MY GUT IS
SAYING LET&apos;S JUST THERE&apos;S NO
BIG I DON&apos;T THINK THERE&apos;S A BIG
DELAY SO IT DOESN&apos;T FEEL LIKE
IT NEEDS TO BE A BIG RUSH.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
MY GUT IS ALSO SAYING TO DELAY
BUT I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO HEAR
FROM BRETT AND ALEXIS LIKE HOW
MUCH TIME WOULD THIS ACTUALLY
TAKE TO DO LIKE WHAT HOW MUCH
WOULD THIS ACTUALLY SET US BACK
IF WE COLLECTED A LITTLE MORE
DATA ON THIS AND BROUGHT IT
BACK TO BROADER TALKS AND THEN
BROUGHT IT TO THE NEXT MEETING
LIKE HOW MANY HOURS ARE WE
TALKING?
OH, IT DEPENDS ON WHAT WE FIND.
OF COURSE I DON&apos;T THINK YEAH I
DON&apos;T AS FAR AS PUTTING
TOGETHER SOME SCENARIOS THAT&apos;S
PRETTY SIMPLE AS LONG AS YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO ACCEPT MY RUDIMENTARY
GRAPHICS SKILLS AS FAR AS
RESEARCH I AM GOING TO SAY
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING MAYBE WE COULD
PUT TOGETHER IN A MATTER OF I I
WOULD PUTTING TOGETHER SORT
OF A FULLY FULLY FORMED SORT
OF OPINION ON IT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M THINKING MAYBE MAYBE A
TWO OF FOUR WEEK ENDEAVOR BUT
NOT LIKE THAT OLD TIME.
IT&apos;S NOT I&apos;M NOT SAYING THAT
THAT&apos;S IN TERMS OF WHEN THE
WITH IN THE CONTEXT OF OUR
OTHER WORK TO PULL THE DATA PUT
TOGETHER OUR THOUGHTS THAT&apos;S MY
THAT&apos;S MY ROUGH I MEAN HOW MUCH
DO YOU THINK IT WOULD DELAY
IT&apos;S A WAY TO DELAY WHATEVER WE
WANT TO TACKLE NEXT ON OUR
WORKPLACE.
LET&apos;S JUST SAY TAKE ONE
HYPOTHETICALLY WOULD IT DELAY
THAT THEN BY TWO TO FOUR WEEKS
SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
&gt;&gt; I IF I COULD OFFER ANOTHER
LIKE OBVIOUSLY THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S
SOME DIFFERENCE OF OPINIONS ON
THIS.
I WOULD JUST ADD ANOTHER
ANOTHER PIECE OF IT IS THAT IF
THE PLANNING COMMISSION WANTED
TO WANTED TO PURSUE THIS
AMENDMENT I APPRECIATE THE
THOUGHTS ABOUT YOU DON&apos;T REALLY
HAVE ALL THAT INFORMATION AND I
WANT TO BE CLEAR LIKE I DON&apos;T I
DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MUCH INFORMATION
OR DATA AS I SAID WE&apos;RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO PROVIDE YOU IT&apos;LL
BE MORE SCENARIOS AND SOME SORT
OF I DON&apos;T SAY ANECDOTAL BUT
SOME SORT OF PINPOINT RESEARCH
IN A COUPLE OF AREAS OF THE
CITY PROBABLY WE COULD ALSO
PROVIDE THAT IN CONCERT WITH
THIS PROGRESSING FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO THE CITY
COUNCIL SO THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS THE BENEFIT OF THAT
SAME KIND OF INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT DOESN&apos;T NECESSARILY
ADDRESS SOME OF THE CONCERNS
HERE AT THE TABLE.
BUT I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT OUT
AS ANOTHER ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY
THAT WE CAN FRAME THE QUESTION
THAT WAS RAISED THE IF THE
AMENDMENT IS PROPOSED, WHY IT
WAS PROPOSED AND WE CAN PROVIDE
SOME OF THAT SAME INFORMATION
TO THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THEIR
CONSIDERATION OF THAT.
OK, HOW MUCH WOULD THAT DELAY I
MEAN I LIKE THAT APPROACH BUT
ARE WE STILL WOULD IT BE LESS
TIME BECAUSE IT HAS TO COME
THROUGH LESS MEETINGS FOR US?
ARE WE STILL TALKING ABOUT LIKE
THE RESEARCH THAT&apos;S GOING TO
TAKE THE SAME TIME?
RIGHT.
YEAH, AND WE STILL GOT TO PUT
THAT TOGETHER BUT IT IT WOULD
SORT OF MOVE YOUR IT WOULD MOVE
IT FROM YOUR AGENDAS FOR YOUR
AGENDAS TO BE OPENED UP FOR THE
NEXT.
YEAH.
IF ALEXIS IS HERE WITH THAT I&apos;M
OK WITH IT.
&gt;&gt; YOUR WISH IS MY COMMAND.
I WOULD I WOULD JUST SAY I
THINK THAT THE GENERIC KIND
OF WHAT THE IMPACT IS ON THE
LOT IS PROBABLY LESS
INTERESTING TO ME.
I THINK THE KIND OF GOING BACK
AND LOOKING AT THE PLATS AND
ONCE UPON A TIME THE SETBACKS
IN THE R A USED TO BE THREE
FEET.
I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THAT COULD
BE THAT DATA POINT AND THAT
RESEARCH IN MY MIND WAS THE
MOST INTERESTING THING EVEN
THOUGH I&apos;M NOT PROPOSING THAT
WE CHANGE THAT OR THAT&apos;S NOT
THE MOTION ON THE TABLE.
IT JUST SUGGESTS TO ME THAT
THAT COULD BE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
GET FEWER NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES TO ALLOW FOR THEN
AMENDMENTS.
WHAT ADAPTIVE REUSE?
I&apos;M JUST GOING THROW THAT OUT
THERE LIKE IT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY
ADAPTING BUT LIKE FOR THOSE FOR
THOSE THINGS TO HAPPEN.
SO IF I WOULD BE IN SUPPORT THE
RESEARCH IN THE INTERIM TO
REALLY TRY AND GO TOWARDS THAT
END OR WHATEVER STAFF FINDS
MOST INTERESTING, I DON&apos;T THINK
THAT THIS IS WORTH DELAYING ALL
OF THE OTHER THINGS.
I DON&apos;T THINK THIS IS WORTH
DELAYING THE OTHER THINGS THAT
ARE APPLY TO MUCH, MANY MORE
THAN SIX HUNDRED PROPERTIES IN
OUR CITY.
&gt;&gt; SO ANY OTHER COMMENTS BEFORE
WE VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT TO
MODIFY THE REAR THAT BACKS TO
TWENTY FEET?
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER RANDALL,
IF WE DO THE THE SCENARIO THAT
MR. LEONARD SUGGESTED, DO WE
NEED TO ADJUST THE AMENDMENT
SCENARIO THAT MR. LEONARD
SUGGESTED WOULD WOULD STAND AND
IT WOULD GO ON TO CITY COUNCIL
AND CITY COUNCIL LOOKS AT WHAT
WE PASS THEM ALONG BUT IF
THERE&apos;S ADDITIONAL IF THEY WANT
TO REVERSE THAT, THAT IS THEIR
PREROGATIVE.
RIGHT.
IF YOUR RESEARCH TURNS UP THAT
THIS WOULD BE AWFUL OR THAT IT
NEEDS TO GO FURTHER, OK, SO
THAT AMENDMENT WOULD GO FORWARD
AS AN AMENDMENT THAT CAME UP
BUT WE DIDN&apos;T VOTE ON FOR THAT.
&gt;&gt; WE VOTED NO.
WE WOULD VOTE RIGHT NOW WE
SHOULD VOTE WHETHER OR NOT WE
AS A BODY THINK THAT THEY
SHOULD CHANGE THE THE REAR SEAT
BACK TO THAT WHAT WE PASS ON TO
CITY COUNCIL VOTE YES IF WE
THINK COUNCIL SHOULD.
&gt;&gt; SO NOW WE&apos;RE VOTING TO
ADVISE COUNCIL.
YES.
THANK YOU.
BUT WE WOULD BE ALLOWING THEM
YES.
TO CONTINUE TO DO MORE RESEARCH
BUT WE WOULD BE ALLOWING THEM
BETWEEN THIS MEETING IN THE
TO CONTINUE TO DO MORE RESEARCH
NEXT MEETING.
BETWEEN THIS MEETING IN THE
YES, THAT REPORT WOULD INCLUDE
NEXT MEETING.
EXACTLY THAT&apos;S I JUST WANTED TO
YES, THAT REPORT WOULD INCLUDE
KNOW IF I SUPPOSED TO VOTE NO
EXACTLY THAT&apos;S I JUST WANTED TO
OR.
KNOW IF I SUPPOSED TO VOTE NO
RIGHT.
OR.
EXACTLY RIGHT.
RIGHT.
THEY WOULD ANYWAY AND I WOULD
EXACTLY RIGHT.
JUST ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ANY
THEY WOULD ANYWAY AND I WOULD
OF THE RESEARCH THAT THEY DO
JUST ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ANY
ARE THE SAME STAFF THAT ARE
OF THE RESEARCH THAT THEY DO
HELPING US MOVE FORWARD.
ARE THE SAME STAFF THAT ARE
ALL OF THE OTHER THINGS.
HELPING US MOVE FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT IS AMONG THE REASONS
ALL OF THE OTHER THINGS.
THAT I WOULD KEEP IT MINIMAL.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT IS AMONG THE REASONS
&gt;&gt; THE RESEARCH IN THE INTERIM
THAT I WOULD KEEP IT MINIMAL.
AND JUST FOR YOUR FIRST TASTE
&gt;&gt; THE RESEARCH IN THE INTERIM
OF THAT RESEARCH IN 1964 THE R
AND JUST FOR YOUR FIRST TASTE
TO A WE&apos;RE JUST REFLECTING A
OF THAT RESEARCH IN 1964 THE R
CONTINUATION OF SETBACKS IN THE
TO A WE&apos;RE JUST REFLECTING A
CITY ARE TO IN 1864 WAS FIVE
CONTINUATION OF SETBACKS IN THE
FOOT SETBACKS AND A 30 FOOT
CITY ARE TO IN 1864 WAS FIVE
REAR SETBACK.
FOOT SETBACKS AND A 30 FOOT
SO SO TOO I KNOW ALEXIS WAS
REAR SETBACK.
TALKING ABOUT LOTS AND LOTS BUT
SO SO TOO I KNOW ALEXIS WAS
FROM A REGULATORY PERSPECTIVE
TALKING ABOUT LOTS AND LOTS BUT
YOU&apos;RE SEEING INERTIA.
FROM A REGULATORY PERSPECTIVE
HMM.
YOU&apos;RE SEEING INERTIA.
WELL THAT&apos;S QUICK ON THE FLY.
HMM.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS BEFORE WE
WELL THAT&apos;S QUICK ON THE FLY.
TAKE A VOTE ON WHETHER WE OUGHT
ANY OTHER COMMENTS BEFORE WE
TO CHANGE THAT RESET BACK TO
TAKE A VOTE ON WHETHER WE OUGHT
TWENTY?
TO CHANGE THAT RESET BACK TO
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE VOTING ON WHETHER
TWENTY?
WE SHOULD CHANGE TO TWENTY FEET
WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE VOTING ON WHETHER
DO CAN ROLL CALL OF THAT.
WE SHOULD CHANGE TO TWENTY FEET
WE CAN DO A ROLL CALL WHENEVER
DO CAN ROLL CALL OF THAT.
YOU WANT.
WE CAN DO A ROLL CALL WHENEVER
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO FOR THIS
YOU WANT.
ITEM.
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO FOR THIS
&gt;&gt; BUT IF SINCE THERE&apos;S
ITEM.
DIFFERING OPINIONS MAYBE IT
&gt;&gt; BUT IF SINCE THERE&apos;S
MAKES SENSE.
DIFFERING OPINIONS MAYBE IT
I THINK THAT PROBABLY MAKES
MAKES SENSE.
SENSE.
I THINK THAT PROBABLY MAKES
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SENSE.
SO THE MOTION IS TO AMEND THE
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
REAR SETBACK FOR THE R TO A
SO THE MOTION IS TO AMEND THE
DISTRICT FROM THIRTY TO TWENTY
REAR SETBACK FOR THE R TO A
BUT MINIMAL COMMISSIONER MILLS.
DISTRICT FROM THIRTY TO TWENTY
YES, COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
BUT MINIMAL COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEE ACCUSED
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH YES.
ALL RIGHT PASSES GREAT.
&gt;&gt; AND NOW WE HAVE AN AMENDED
PROPOSAL ANYTHING ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION OF M ONE OR THE
OTHER TO A AS AMENDED JUST NOW
.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE&apos;RE READY FOR A VOTE
I CAN DO WE NEED TO DO THIS AS
ROLL CALL?
YES.
YES, PLEASE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
I GAVE BRANDELL YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER YES.
COMMISSIONER RAYBANS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER LI IS RECUSED
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH YES MOTION CARRIES AS
AMENDED THE ORDINANCE PASSES AS
AMENDED.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
WELL LET&apos;S SEE DO WE KNOW WHERE
COMMISSIONER LI WENT.
&gt;&gt; SHALL WE GO GRAB HIM.
&gt;&gt; I WILL.
SOME SUMMONED HIM SHORTLY THANK
YOU AND I WILL FIND THE MOTION
FOR THE NEXT ONE TOO AND MY
PACKET
NICE.
&gt;&gt; OK SO WE ARE READY FOR ITEM
EIGHT B WHICH ARE THREE
ADDITIONAL AMENDMENTS TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE AND
RATHER THAN INTRODUCE THEM MR
LEO CAN YOU RATHER THAN ME TALK
ABOUT THEM.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU INTRODUCE THEM FOR
US?
YES I CAN.
LET ME ARGUE WITH MEASURING
AGAIN.
LOOK LOOKS GOOD AND ALL RIGHT
WHAT NO COOKING GAS OK THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE THREE MORE UDC
AMENDMENTS FOR YOU TONIGHT.
THEY ALLOW DEAL WITH MARIJUANA
FACILITIES AND LICENSES AND
TYPES THEY DEAL WITH CREWCUTS
AND STREET MEETS STREET TREES
MOSTLY BIRKERTS PART OF IT AND
THE LANDSCAPE A MODIFICATION
SECTION AGAIN THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCE HAS ALL FIVE
AMENDMENTS THAT I AM PROPOSING
BUT RIGHT NOW JUST TALK ABOUT
THE LAST THREE THE FIRST TWO
SECTIONS FIVE SIXTEEN THREE
REGARDING MARIJUANA FACILITIES
WE HAVE TWO CHANGES AND THEN A
REORGANIZED WE ARE PROPOSING TO
DELETE PARAGRAPH B ENTIRELY AND
THAT IS A TABLE MOSTLY THAT
TALKS ABOUT THE NUMBER OF STATE
LICENSES PER WHAT AS YOU CAN
SEE ON THE SCREEN ON THE M ONE
AND 1A AND M2 DISTRICT ALLOWED
FIVE LICENSES PER AR E FOR
RESEARCH AND OR FOR OFFICE
RESEARCH INDUSTRIAL ALLOWED TO
ADD ALL OTHER DISTRICTS WHERE
THE FACILITIES HAD ONE
PROPOSING TO DELETE THAT ALSO
PROPOSING TO DELETE PARAGRAPH E
WHICH WAS THE TYPES
OF FACILITIES LOT IN PARAGRAPH
E SAID NO MORE THAN ONE TYPE
OF THE FOLLOWING SHALL BE
LOCATED ON THE LOCK AND WE&apos;LL
BE DELETING THAT ENTIRE
PARAGRAPH
WHEREAS BEFORE THE
OLD LAYOUT IN THIS SECTION WAS
ORGANIZED BY THE TYPES
OF RESTRICTIONS WE ARE
PROPOSING TO REORGANIZE IT WITH
THE SAME RESTRICTIONS TO JUST
BE BY FACILITY.
SO A LITTLE BIT BETTER ONE STOP
SHOPPING WE BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
PROPOSING TO ELIMINATE ANY
OTHER RESTRICTIONS.
THERE WILL STILL BE THE
REQUIREMENTS THAT THERE ARE
SPACING BETWEEN CERTAIN
FACILITIES AND SCHOOL SPACING
BETWEEN CERTAIN FACILITIES
AMONG EACH OTHER AND SO ON AND
SO FORTH ALL THE SAME STANDARDS
APPLY THESE CHANGES WILL ADD A
LITTLE BIT OF CLARITY IN OUR
ORDINANCE AND THEY WOULD BETTER
ALIGN WITH STATE STANDARDS.
HAPPY TO GO INTO THAT A LITTLE
BIT MORE BUT I DID TALK ABOUT
THAT AT THE LAST MEETING FOR
ANOTHER AMENDMENT THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING IS TO SECTION FIVE
TWENTY POINT TEN B WHICH IS
TREES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE PROPOSING TO EXCLUDE
THE WIDTH OF A CURB CUT WHEN
YOU ARE MEASURING
THREE TREES AND THEN WE ARE
PROPOSING TO PUT HEADINGS THERE
ONE AUTHORITY AND ANY AUTHORITY
BE SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS THE
STATE PLAN REQUIREMENT WOULD BE
THAT ONE STREET TREE IS
REQUIRED FOR EVERY FORTY FIVE
LINEAR FEET OF EXISTING AND
PROPOSED PUBLIC STREET BY THE
WAY MINUS THE WIDTH OF THE
KIRKUP EXISTING TREES CAN HELP
FOR THAT STANDARD AND OUR FINAL
AMENDMENT IN SECTION FIVE
THIRTY EIGHT POINT ONE WHICH
ARE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION S.
CURRENTLY ALLOWS FLEXIBILITY IN
FIVE SECTIONS OF THE LANDSCAPE
REQUIREMENTS DEALING WITH
VEHICULAR USE AREAS PARKING LOT
ELSE DEALING WITH CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFERS, SHARE
DRIVEWAYS AND PRIVATE STREETS
AND RECYCLING CONTAINERS AND
THE MATERIAL AND DESIGN
STANDARDS IN THIS SECTION WE&apos;RE
ALSO PROPOSING LIKE THE
MARIJUANA FACILITY SECTION TO
DO SOME CHANGES AND THEN SOME
REORGANIZATION.
THE CURRENT FORMAT HAS ALL
OF THESE THINGS JUST LISTED IN
ONE SENTENCE I&apos;M PROPOSING TO
JUST LIST THEM OUT ONE TO SIX
AND ADDING TREES IN A PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AS A THING THAT
YOU CAN MODIFY AS PART OF SITE
PLAN APPROVAL.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER THINGS THAT WE ARE
PROPOSING TO DO IN THIS SECTION
ARE TO CHANGE CHANGE TO AND
CLARIFY TO OTHER MODIFICATIONS
THE SET THIS SECTION SAYS THAT
THERE ARE CERTAIN SECTIONS
WE&apos;VE JUST DEALT WITH THAT CAN
BE MODIFIED FOR SPECIFIC
REASONS AND I&apos;VE SUMMARIZED
HERE ON THE SLIDE ONE REASON IS
IF YOU&apos;RE IN A SPECIAL PARKING
DISTRICT THAT IS BASICALLY IN
THE DOWNTOWN IN THE DEBATE IS
DEFINED BUT BASICALLY ANOTHER
IS IF YOU WILL RESULT IN THE
LOSS OF REQUIRED PARKING
SPACES.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT WE CONSIDER A
ACCEPTABLE REASON TO MODIFY THE
REQUIREMENTS.
&gt;&gt; A THIRD AND THE ONES
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW ARE WHAT
WE ARE CHANGING IN THE
STRIKETHROUGH ONES OR WHAT WE
ARE REALLY PROPOSING TO CHANGE
THE NON STRIKETHROUGH IS JUST
WHAT WE&apos;RE TRYING TO CLARIFY.
IT SAYS MORE ABOUT THE
TOPOGRAPHIC FEATURES IF YOU DO
A STRICT APPLICATION IT&apos;LL BE
LESS EFFECTIVE SCREENING.
THAT&apos;S A REASON FOR MODIFYING
ON THE OTHER SIDE ON THE RIGHT
SIDE OF THIS SLIDE WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT LANGUAGE TO TALK
ABOUT WHEN THE TOPOGRAPHY OR
ELEVATION RELATIVE TO ADJACENT
SITES MAKES THE STANDARDS LESS
EFFECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; CURRENTLY WE HAVE A REASON
OF ADDING NEW PLANTINGS WILL BE
DETRIMENTAL TO THE PLANTS OR
CREATE UNDESIRABLE CONDITIONS
AND IN THE EXACT WORDING IT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT AWKWARD AND CLUMSY.
WE ARE PROPOSING TO TRY TO
EXPLAIN IT AS WHEN NEW PLANTS
WOULD BE MORE DETRIMENTAL TO
THE OVERALL EFFECT AND THE
BENEFITS THAT YOU WOULD RECEIVE
THEN KEEPING THE EXISTING
PLANTS.
&gt;&gt; WELL THERE&apos;S ALSO WE HAVE A
REASON THAT TALKS ABOUT WHEN
YOU&apos;RE PROPOSING BIO RETENTION
AREASRIES AND XERISCAPING
AND BECAUSE OF OUR EXPERIENCE
THESE THINGS ARE NOT PROPOSED
SO THEY&apos;RE NOT REALLY A USEFUL
REASON TO MODIFY SO WHAT IS
WOULD BE CHANGING THAT ONE
NUMBER FIVE TO TALKING ABOUT
WHERE THE CONDITIONS PREVENT
THE APPLICATION OF THE
LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS EXAMPLES
BEING WHEN YOU HAVE
CONTAMINATED SOILS OR MAYBE
CLAY SOIL THAT DO NOT
INFILTRATE OR IF YOU HAVE
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES THAT JUST
CANNOT SUPPORT ANY PLANTINGS ON
TOP, THOSE SHOULD BE REASONS TO
MODIFY A SITE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; WELL, LISTED REASON THIS
PROPOSED PLAN PROJECTS ARE
PARTIES WE DON&apos;T HAVE MANY
PROJECTS ANYMORE SO NO ONE IS
GOING TO USE THAT AS A REASON
AND PUTIN IS ALREADY HAVE AN
EMBEDDED WAY TO FLEX LANDSCAPE
REQUIREMENTS SO WE DON&apos;T NEED
TO MODIFY APURVA IT HAS ITS OWN
PROCEDURES BUT WE CAN REPLACE
THAT WITH A MODIFICATION WHEN
NEW STREET TREES ARE PREVENTED
BY OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE
LANGUAGE.
I GIVE SOME EXAMPLES ABOUT WHAT
AN OBSTRUCTION MIGHT BE AND
THEN IT IS A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AND BE APPROVED
WHEN YOU ARE TRYING TO MAINTAIN
APPROVED BUT NOW NONCONFORMING
ELEMENTS KEEP THAT GOING
FORWARD AND THIS IS JUST A
WHOLE PICTURE.
THE CURRENT LAYOUT HAS THE
SECTION HEADER, THE SENTENCE
THAT LISTS ALL OF THE SECTIONS
AND THEN IT&apos;S STANDARDS
OF APPROVAL CONTAINED BOTH THE
STANDARDS AND THE MODIFICATIONS
ELIGIBLE AND WE ARE PROPOSING
HERE TO JUST MAKE IT A LITTLE
MORE USER FRIENDLY BY HAVING AN
ELIGIBLE REQUIREMENT SECTION
AND LISTING OUT THE SEVEN
LISTING THE MODIFICATION
CONDITIONS YOU CAN BETTER
DETERMINE YOUR ELIGIBILITY AND
THEN PROVIDING THE SAME EXACT
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL AND THE
APPROVAL PROCEDURES STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF ALL
THREE AMENDMENTS AND AS
PROPOSED AND I AM HAPPY I WILL
CONCLUDE MY PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND THE NEXT THING THAT WE&apos;LL
IS OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK ABOUT THESE
THREE AMENDMENTS TO THE UDC
MARIJUANA LICENSES, TREES IN
THE RIGHT OF WAY AND LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS IF YOU&apos;VE IF
YOU&apos;RE JOINING REMOTELY YOU CAN
PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU&apos;RE
LISTENING BY PHONE, USE THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON OR CALL IN
AGAIN OR CALL IN NUMBER IS
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN HOUR
MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEINERT WILL CALL ON THOSE
WHO&apos;VE RAISED THEIR HAND.
YOU DO THAT BY PRESSING STAR
NINE AGAIN OR USING THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON AND THEY&apos;LL CALL ON
YOU BY THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR TELEPHONE NUMBER OR BY
YOUR NAME.
PLEASE MOVE TO QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND WHETHER YOU&apos;RE IN PERSON OR
MAKING PARTICIPATING IN THE
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE IN CHAMBERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE PUBLIC HEARING?
YES, GO TO THIRTEEN WITH US AND
FOLLOWING UP ON THE COMMENTS I
MADE AT THE LAST MEETING
CONCERNING THE MARIJUANA
AMENDMENT, I BELIEVE INCREASING
THE NUMBER OF LICENSES FOR ANY
OUT WOULD NOT BE IN OUR BEST
INTEREST IN THE COMMERCIAL OR
INDUSTRIAL AREAS FOR THOSE
OF FAR FROM RESIDENT IT WOULD
BE EQUITABLE TO INCREASE
CAPACITY FOR ONLY THESE SITES.
ANY DISCUSSION OF INCREASING
OVERALL CAPACITY NEEDS
REALLY
INVOLVE THE POTENTIALLY
ALTERING THE LIMITS ON THE
NUMBER AND THE SEPARATION
DISTANCE OF THESE FACILITIES AS
WELL.
FOR ANY SLOTS NEAR RESIDENTS IT
WOULD BE UNFAIR TO REMOVE THE
PROTECTIONS PROVIDED TO THEM AS
ONE WHO LIVES IN NEAR THESE
FACILITIES OBJECT TO REMOVING
RESTRICTIONS, I KNOW MY
NEIGHBORS ARE ALSO CONCERNED
AND I DO NOT BELIEVE COUNCIL
WOULD HAVE WOULD RECEIVE
SUPPORT FROM THE RESIDENTS FROM
THE RESIDENTS FOR THIS
AMENDMENT.
THE MOTIVATION THAT WAS
MENTIONED AT ONE POINT ABOUT
ALLOWING GROWERS TO MORE FULLY
UTILIZE THEIR LANDS DOES HAVE
SOME SUBSTANCE AND COULD BE
FURTHER CONSIDERED.
BUT OBVIOUSLY THE AMENDMENT
GOES MUCH FURTHER AND SHOULD BE
REWORKED.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
ATTENTION.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE MR. LEONARD, IS
THERE ANYONE WHO JOINED
REMOTELY WHO IS INTERESTED IN
PARTICIPATING?
NO SPEAKERS HAVE INDICATED A
DESIRE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND READ THE MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE AMENDMENTS TO
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT AS PROPOSED AND
GENERALLY DESCRIBED AS CHANGES
TO SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE POINT G TO
ELIMINATE MARIJUANA LICENSE
TYPE A NUMBER OF LICENSES.
PALLOT AS WELL AS TO REORGANIZE
FOR CLARITY SECTION FIVE POINT
TWENTY POINT TEN TO EXCLUDE
CURB CUTS FROM STREET TREE
PLANTING FRONTAGE CALCULATION&apos;S
AND REMOVE REFERENCES TO STREET
TREE ESCROW AND SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY POINT ONE TO ADD
ELIGIBILITY AND CONDITIONS TO
MODIFY STREET TREE PLANNING
REQUIREMENTS BY LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS AS WELL AS
CLARIFICATIONS AND
REORGANIZATION.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THAT CAN MOVE TO MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé?
ANYONE WANT TO KICK OFF A
DISCUSSION OR QUESTIONS?
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
I JUST WANT TO UNDERSTAND CAN
WE TALK TO THE COMMENTER?
&gt;&gt; YES, THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I JUST WANT TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE CONCERN IS
BECAUSE I&apos;M CONFUSED BECAUSE
THE NUMBER OF LICENSES WON&apos;T
CHANGE.
IT&apos;S JUST THE TYPE OF LICENSE
THAT THE EXISTING LICENSES HAVE
IN THEIR LOT.
SO THEY COULD HAVE A RETAIL AND
A GROWING IN THE SAME LOT AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S WHAT IS WHAT IS
BEING CHANGED OR I GUESS I&apos;M
REALLY TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT IT IS AS A RESIDENT YOU&apos;RE
OBJECTING TO BECAUSE WE&apos;RE NOT
THERE&apos;S NOTHING THAT&apos;S GOING TO
INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF LICENSES.
THEY&apos;RE STILL BOUND BY THE
TWENTY EIGHT AND IT&apos;S WITHIN
THE LOTS THAT THEY ALREADY
HAVE.
SO I&apos;M I ASKED THIS QUESTION
THE LAST TIME AND I THINK
ALEXIS ANSWERED IT SATISFACTORY
BUT I&apos;M CONCERNED ABOUT YOUR
COMMENT THAT I&apos;M STILL MISSING
SOMETHING.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU&apos;RE ALLOWING SO THIS
RESTRICTION OF THE TWENTY EIGHT
SO BUT WHAT IF YOU AT SOME
POINT IN THE FUTURE WANT TO
INCREASE THEN THIS THEN THIS
SLOT HAS UNLIMITED YOU CAN
INCREASE THOSE THOSE SAME TYPES
OF IT WOULD HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THIS WHOLE PROCESS AGAIN
BECAUSE IT WOULD BE A CHANGE TO
THE CODE WRITTEN IN THE CODE IS
THE RESTRICTION SO SOMEONE
WANTS TO CHANGE IT.
IT STARTS HERE AND THEN IT GOES
TO COUNCIL.
IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT&apos;S A GREAT QUESTION FOR
STAFF.
OK, THANK YOU.
YES THAT IS CORRECT.
SURE.
LET ME SO THE WAY THE ORDINANCE
IS CONCERNED CAN AND STRANDED
CURRENTLY I WANT TO SAY
SOMETHING IS WE HAVE TO LIMITS
WE THERE THERE ARE MULTIPLE
FACILITY TYPES OF MULTIPLE
FACILITY TYPES.
TWO OF THEM ARE THREE OF THEM
HAVE QUANTITY LIMITS,
DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION
FACILITIES WHICH WE HAVE ONE IN
ONE GRANTED IN THE CITY SO FAR
MICRO BUSINESSES OF WHICH WE
HAVE ONE GRANTED IN THE CITY SO
FAR AND PROVISIONING CENTERS
RETAILERS WHICH WE HAVE TWENTY
MAX AND TWENTY EIGHT GRANTED IN
THE CITY SO FAR.
&gt;&gt; SO CURRENTLY WE REGULATE ALL
THOSE FACILITY TYPES BY TWO
WAYS OF BY THE USE BY THE
PROPOSED ZONING DISTRICTS WHICH
THEY ARE AND IN THE CODE IT
SAYS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
SHALL NOT ISSUE MORE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES THEN THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS ALLOTTED TO THAT.
SO IN THE IN THE EXAMPLE THAT
THE SPEAKER IS ADDRESSING, IF
THE CITY COUNCIL WERE TO AMEND
TO SAY WE WOULD NOW LIKE TO
ESTABLISH UP TO THIRTY EIGHT
PROVISIONING CENTER LICENSES
THEN WHAT THIS CHANGE WOULD DO
CURRENTLY YOU COULDN&apos;T HAVE
MORE THAN ONE PROVISIONING
LICENSE AT THAT LOCATION IF
THAT WERE TO HAPPEN.
OTHER LICENSES WERE TO COME UP
AND NO OTHER CHANGES HAPPEN
THEN A PETITIONER COULD COME
AND ASK TO AMEND A SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS FOR THAT SAME
PROPERTY TO ADD TO PROVISIONING
CENTERS TO THAT YOU WERE RIGHT
THEY WOULD HAVE TO COME THROUGH
THIS PROCESS BUT THERE COULD BE
ACTION AT THE CITY COUNCIL THAT
IMPACTS THAT SORT OF OPENS THE
DOOR FOR THAT DIFFERENTLY.
SO THIS DOES NOT CHANGE IT
DOESN&apos;T CHANGE THE USES THAT
ARE PERMISSIBLE AT THAT
LOCATION BUT IT COULD FOR
EXAMPLE AND ANOTHER EXAMPLE IT
COULD SAY THAT A MICROBEADS
THEN COULD ALSO SEEK APPROVAL
AT THAT SAME LOCATION WHEREAS
CURRENTLY WELL CURRENTLY
DEPENDING ON THE NUMBER
OF LICENSES IN THE ZONING
DISTRICT YOU WOULD BE LIMITED.
SO IN THE VAST MAJORITY OF THE
CITY ONLY ONE LICENSE FOR THAT.
SO THIS CHANGE WOULD ALLOW IN
THAT CASE POTENTIALLY A SECOND
FACILITY TO LOCATE ON THAT LA
WHO GRANTS THE LICENSES THAT
THE STATE OR THE CITY OR BOTH
BOTH OK BUT AND SO THERE&apos;S JUST
A LOT OF STEPS I FEEL LIKE AND
SO THE THE AMENDMENT CHANGES
THAT WERE MODIFICATIONS THAT
WE&apos;RE MAKING HERE DON&apos;T SEEM TO
ADDRESS WHAT YOU&apos;VE RAISED.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTOOD WHAT YOU WERE
RAISING BECAUSE YOU WERE
CONCERNED.
WELL, YOU&apos;RE IF THE CHAIR
PERMITS YOU CAN RESTATE IT SO
THAT I MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
EXACTLY WHAT YOU ARE OBJECTING
TO.
GO AHEAD.
SO ONE JUST COMMENT AS FAR AS
THAT BUT IF IT&apos;S NOT MAKING ANY
CHANGE THEN WHY DO IT?
SO MY PERSPECTIVE ON THIS AS
SOMEBODY WHO LIVES IN THIS AREA
YOU CAME AND THE CITY S OR WE
WENT THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF BEING REQUESTED FOR A
SPECIAL USE EXEMPTION ON A
MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY.
IT WAS CHANGED WITHOUT ANY
OF OUR AWARENESS.
WE&apos;RE GOING THROUGH THE PROCESS
TO CHANGE IT TO RECREATIONAL
AND NOW YOU WANT TO AGAIN JUST
INCREASE IT, REMOVE NEW
RESTRICTIONS ON THE AMOUNT
OF THESE THINGS THAT ARE HERE.
IT SEEMS WE MADE AN AGREEMENT
ON MEDICAL MARIJUANA AND IT&apos;S
CONTINUALLY ERODING AWAY.
THAT IS MY CONCERN IS THAT IT
IS I DON&apos;T KNOW WHO TO
APPROPRIATELY ADDRESS THIS TOO
HAS WE DEBATE IF IF I CAN JUST
TALK TO YOU CHAIR MILLS SO THE
STATE CHANGED THE LAW AROUND
MEDICAL TO RECREATIONAL AND SO
BECAUSE OF THAT THERE WASN&apos;T A
STOP AT PLANNING COMMISSION TO
SAY HEY CITY OF ANN ARBOR, THIS
STATE CHANGE IS GOING TO CHANGE
THESE LOCAL THINGS.
DO YOU WANT TO CHANGE YOUR
ORDINANCES TO REJECT THIS IN
SOME WAY SO THERE WASN&apos;T A
THERE WASN&apos;T WE DIDN&apos;T SKIP A
STEP IN OUR DELIBERATIONS AS A
BODY SO I I DON&apos;T TRUST MY
MEMORY EVEN THOUGH LIKE I&apos;VE
BEEN HERE FROM THE BEGINNING
OF THIS I DON&apos;T TRUST IT SO
THAT I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD THING
FOR STAFF BECAUSE I DO THINK WE
DID HAVE THAT DISCUSSION.
YEAH.
SO THE THE THAT THAT SORT
OF EVOLUTION THAT WAS ADDRESSED
THAT WAS A RESULT OF A COUPLE
OF ITEMS WHEN THE STATE WHEN
THE STATE LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK
WAS ENACTED THAT ALLOWED FOR
MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
THAT WAS THE FIRST THE CITY
CHOSE TO ALLOW THOSE FACILITIES
IN THE CITY.
SO AT THAT TIME THE CITY THEN
MODIFIED ITS ZONING CODE AND A
LICENSING ORDINANCE TO ALLOW
FOR MEDICAL MARIJUANA
FACILITIES TO BE ESTABLISHED IN
THE CITY THAT ESTABLISHED THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE PERMIT
THAT REQUIRED A MEDICAL
PROVISIONING CENTER TO BE
ESTABLISHED TO REQUIRE THAT
STEP BEFORE IT TO BE
ESTABLISHED AND A CAP WAS
ESTABLISHED AT THAT SAME TIME
SUBSEQUENT TO THE CITY ENACTING
THAT THE VOTERS OF THE STATE
PASSED A NEW LAW THE TAXATION
AND RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ACT.
&gt;&gt; WITHIN THAT ACT IT SAID TWO
THINGS IT&apos;S STILL PROVIDED SOME
FLEXIBILITY FOR COMMUNITIES TO
DECIDE IF THEY WANTED TO OPT IN
OR NOT.
BUT IT ALSO INCLUDED LANGUAGE
THAT SAID A COMMUNITY CANNOT
WITHHOLD A RETAIL LICENSE FROM
A MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PROVISIONING CENTER.
SO IN THAT STATE LAW WAS A LINK
THAT THEN THE CITY SUBSEQUENTLY
FOLLOWED AND FOLLOWED THAT THAT
THAT CHANGE AND MODIFIED OUR
DEFINITION TO SIMILARLY EQUATE
THOSE TWO FACILITIES THE SAME.
SO IT IS TRUE WE DID NOT REALLY
REQUIRE THAT MEDICAL TO GO
THROUGH THE SPECIAL SUBSTANCE
USE PERMIT AT THAT TIME THE
VOTERS HAD ENACTED A LAW WITH
THAT LENGTH THAT SAYS IF YOU
HAVE A PROVISIONING CENTER THE
COMMUNITY CANNOT DENY YOU A
RETAILER.
OK, SO SO THEY DID CHANGE AND
IT WAS THAT SORT OF A SNAPSHOT
OF THAT FRAMEWORK.
SO WE DID MODIFY OUR CODE TO
REFLECT THAT LANGUAGE BUT THAT
MANDATE LAW SO WE STILL HAVE TO
BE IN COMPLIANCE.
SO WE MYOZYME WOULD HAVE BEEN
OUT OF COMPLIANCE.
WE MODIFIED OUR LAW TO NOT ONLY
REFLECT THAT BUT TO ALSO
CLEARLY PROVIDE THE OTHER TYPES
OF RETAIL FACILITIES THAT WERE
ENABLED
IN THAT STATE
LEGISLATION AS WELL WHICH ARE
THE THREE THAT YOU MENTIONED SO
AGAIN AND I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE
YEAH.
USUALLY I WAS THINKING IT&apos;S NOT
SUPER CONVENTIONAL TO TO PULL
PEOPLE BACK IN BUT I WOULD SAY
IF IT&apos;S HELPFUL TO CLARIFY I&apos;M
OK WITH IT.
OK, BUT YEAH SO SO THEN THE NEW
CONCERN WOULD BE I HAVE A
PROVISIONING LICENSE AND I WANT
TO HAVE A CONSUMPTION LICENSE
AND I HAVE OBTAINED THESE FROM
THE STATE AND NOW I&apos;VE OBTAINED
THEM FROM THE CITY AND THIS
REVISION WILL ALLOW ME IN MY
SAME FACILITY TO HOLD BOTH
OF THOSE LICENSES.
BUT IT WOULD IT DOESN&apos;T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT THOSE
ACTIVITIES ARE HAPPENING IN THE
SAME SPACE.
IT&apos;S JUST IN THE SAME LOT.
CORRECT.
SO I COULD CREATE A CONSUMPTION
FIRST LEVEL OF PROVISIONING
SECOND LEVEL AND A GROWING
THIRD LEVEL IN MY LOT IN OUR
LAW NOW SAYS IF WE PASS THIS
REVISION THAT I CAN HOLD ALL
THREE OF THOSE LICENSES AND
OPERATE IN THIS SAME LOT.
IT&apos;S NOT ABOUT ME CREATING A
NEW SIDE BUSINESS NEXT TO
UNLESS I BUILD A NEW STRUCTURE
AND I HAVE SPACE WITHIN MY LOT
I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO MAKE SURE
I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING OK, SO
EVERYBODY&apos;S SHAKING THEIR
HEADS.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN I JUST WANT TO TURN
BACK TO THE COMMENTOR AND MAKE
SURE THAT YOUR UNDERSTANDING IS
MINDER&apos;S DANDI AND YOU STILL
MAINTAIN YOUR OBJECTION.
&gt;&gt; BUT I IF IF I COULD JUST
CLARIFY WHAT YOU SAID IS
CORRECT RIGHT NOW THERE RIGHT
NOW EVEN IF THE ZONING ALLOWED
ALL THREE OF THOSE USES, ONLY
ONE MIGHT BE ALLOWED BECAUSE
OF THIS RESTRICTION.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR THOUGH IN
MOST CASES YOU&apos;RE NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO HAVE THOSE THREE
USES BECAUSE THIS DOES NOT WIPE
AWAY THE ZONING REQUIREMENTS IF
THEY&apos;RE NOT PERMITTED
ADMISSIBLE IN THAT ZONE
GROWING.
SO I CAN&apos;T GO THERE.
HOWEVER, IF THE OTHER TWO USE
ARE PERMISSIBLE AND THEY
REQUIRE TWO LICENSES, THEN I
CAN THEN YOU COULD DO THAT
WHEREAS NOW YOU&apos;RE LIMITED TO
ONE LICENSE, OK?
&gt;&gt; AND ALL.
OK, SORRY IT IS A LOT TO HOLD.
I&apos;M JUST STRUGGLING AS I AS I
NAVIGATE AND I&apos;M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOUR OBJECTION
IS TO MAKE SURE THAT IT&apos;S CLEAR
TO ME SO IF YOU WANT TO IF YOU
KNOW IF THE CHAIR PERMITS AND
YOU WANT TO MAKE ANOTHER QUICK
COMMENT I THINK THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
YEAH.
AT YOUR REQUEST.
YES.
WELL YOU&apos;RE THE CHAIR SO YOU&apos;VE
GOT TO LET ME KNOW AND I WILL I
BE GETTING SO WITH THE MEDICAL
YOU YOU GET SICK, YOU KNOW,
SEND OUT A POSTCARD OF SIXTY
SIX HUNDRED FEET OF RESIDENTS
ARE ABLE TO VOICE THEIR
OBJECTION ABOUT IT.
WHAT WAS ASKED OF US MEDICAL
MARIJUANA WOULD BE THEIR WOULD
THERE BE RECREATIONAL?
NO.
THAT WAS OFF THE TABLE.
IT WAS ILLEGAL TO DO IT AT THAT
TIME AND THAT WAS CHANGE.
NOW THERE WAS A YOU KNOW, THE
CONSTITUTION WAS AMENDMENT FOUR
THAT AT THAT TIME OR AND SO
WHAT IT DID WAS THEY DECIDED TO
MAKE TO ACCEPT THAT AND
AUTOMATICALLY GRANT THAT
MEDICAL ONE TO THE RECREATIONAL
ONE.
SO I MEAN BASICALLY THE NUMBER
WAS WILLING TO WAS NOT DIDN&apos;T
HAVE TO ACCEPT THAT BUT THEY
HAD TO IN ORDER TO BRING IT IN
THEY WERE WILLING TO GRANT
RECREATIONAL PERMITS TO AREAS
THAT MAY NOT HAVE RECEIVED THEM
IN THE PAST OR IN THE CURRENT
LEGISLATION.
THAT&apos;S MY CONCERN WHERE I&apos;M
COMING FROM.
AND NOW YOU&apos;RE SAYING THAT WELL
LET&apos;S JUST EXPAND IT OUT TO
EVERYONE ELSE AND SO I JUST SEE
THIS CONTINUAL EROSION OF THE
RIGHTS THAT WERE THAT WE
ORIGINALLY DISCUSSED AT THE
MEDICAL PERMIT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APPRECIATE BACK AND FORTH.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER TISH.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER ROACH
BECAUSE I MISSED THE MEETING
WHEN THIS CAME UP THE FIRST
TIME AND SO I THOUGHT IT WAS
JUST ME SO I&apos;M GLAD YOU WALKED
ME THROUGH ALL THAT.
SO I&apos;M STILL FUZZY ON ONE ON
ONE THING AND WOULD LIKE A
CLEAR ANSWER TO ANOTHER SO I&apos;M
FUZZY ON WHETHER THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR HAD DISCRETION
WITH RESPECT TO GRANTING A
RETAIL LICENSE TO EXISTING
MEDICAL MARIJUANA CENTERS.
I, I THOUGHT I UNDERSTOOD THIS
LETTER.
YEAH.
THAT THERE WAS NOT DISCRETION I
SO I WANT TO I WANT TO BE CLEAR
IT&apos;S A VERY COMPLICATED
QUESTION AND I THINK THAT IT
WOULD PROBABLY BE BEST POSED TO
THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE.
BUT FROM MY MY INTERPRETATION
ONCE THE CITY DECIDED TO ENABLE
MEDICAL PROVISIONING CENTER AND
THE CONSTITUTION WAS AMENDED,
MY READ OF THAT IS THAT IT
FORCED THE CITY&apos;S HAND AT THAT
POINT TO ALLOW RETAILERS FOR
THOSE FACILITIES.
IT DIDN&apos;T REQUIRE US TO EXPAND
OR PROVIDE OTHER BUT FOR
PROVIDED FOR ALLOCATED
PROVISIONING CENTERS.
THE LEGISLATION FROM MY READ IS
THAT IT MAKES IT CLEAR THAT WE
COULD NOT THEN SAY YOU CANNOT
RETAIL SUBSEQUENTLY THE CITY
COUNCIL MEMORIALIZED THAT AN
ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS BOTH IN DC
AND IN THE LICENSING TO I THINK
FULLY ACKNOWLEDGE AND
ACCOMMODATE RETAILERS
SPECIFICALLY.
&gt;&gt; SO NO, NO, NO.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO BE CLEAR WE
MODIFY THE DEFINITION WHEREAS
BEFORE IT SAID MEDICAL
MARIJUANA PROVISIONING ETC. THE
DEFINITION IS MODIFIED TO SAY
THAT AND RETAILERS SHALL BE
USED INTERCHANGEABLY.
&gt;&gt; I WILL FOLLOW UP WITH THE
CITY ATTORNEYS TO VERIFY
WHETHER THERE WAS IN FACT NO
DISCRETION.
OK, AND THEN JUST MY SECOND
QUESTION IS WHY DO WE THINK
WE&apos;RE ZONING PERMITS?
IT&apos;S OF BENEFIT.
WHAT IS THE BENEFIT TO WHERE
ZONING PERMITS ALLOWING MORE
THAN ONE TYPE OF LICENSE TO BE
HELD ON THE SAME LOT?
THAT&apos;S A STAFF QUESTION.
I KNOW YOU GUYS ARE LOOKING AT
ME BECAUSE IT&apos;S KIND OF WEIRD
THAT STUFF&apos;S BEHIND YOU AND ON
AND ON THE TV SCREEN BUT LIKE I
DON&apos;T KNOW THE ANSWERS TO THESE
JUST TO BE CLEAR, I KEEP
TALKING.
I APOLOGIZE TO MR. LEO ALEXIS
JUMP IN IF BUT BUT SO THIS THIS
THIS THIS ORDINANCE WAS BROUGHT
TO US BY A PROPERTY OWNER WHICH
IS PROVIDED FOR IN THE
ORDINANCE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
APPLY FOR SUCH TAX CHANGES AND
THE BARRIER WAS CURRENTLY OUR
ORDINANCE IN SOME DISTRICTS
SPECIFICALLY ONE DISTRICTS
ALLOWS UP TO FIVE LICENSES BUT
IT ALSO ISN&apos;T IT ALSO READS
THAT YOU CAN ONLY HAVE ONE
OF EACH TYPE.
SO WHAT THAT MEANS IS IN AN I&apos;M
ONE DISTRICT YOU COULD HAVE A
PROVISIONING CENTER, A GROWER,
A SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY, A
PROCESSOR AND WHAT AM I MISSING
A TRANSPORTER.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU COULD NOT IN FACT
HAVE TO GROWERS YOU COULD NOT
IN FACT HAVE TWO PROCESSORS AND
THE INDUSTRY AT THE STATE DOES
ALLOW YOU TO QUOTE UNQUOTE
STACK TO GROW FACILITIES TO
GROW LICENSES.
THOSE LICENSES ARE ISSUED BY
THE STATE UNDER THE MAXIMUM
NUMBER OF PLANTS AND AT TIMES
THE STATE DOES ISSUE YOU TO
GROW LICENSES.
OUR ORDINANCE PREVENTS THAT
BECAUSE WE ONLY ALLOW ONE
OF EACH TYPE SO THAT WAS THE
INITIAL APPLICATION AND AND AND
THEN PRESENTING THAT AND
DISCUSSING AT THE ORDINANCE
PROVISIONS COMMITTEE I THINK IF
THERE WAS A RECALL SORT OF I
DON&apos;T WANT TO SPEAK FOR THEM
BUT I THINK THERE WAS SOME
CONVERSATION OF THAT PART
OF THAT RESTRICTION
OF LICENSES.
PALLOT WAS SIMILAR TO SOME
OF THE LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS
AND I THINK IT WAS OUT OF A
SENSE OF WE DIDN&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT THIS IMPACT WAS GOING TO
BE IN OUR COMMUNITY AND IT WAS
AS WE TALKED ABOUT WITH OTHER
THINGS MAYBE IT WAS A MORE
CONSERVATIVE APPROACH TO
PROVIDE SOME OPPORTUNITIES FOR
THIS BUT IT WAS ALSO KIND
OF MAYBE WE DON&apos;T WANT TO OPEN
UP THE DOOR FOR A ENTI OR MULTI
MULTI SUITE BUILDING TO BE
SOLELY MARIJUANA AS OPPOSED TO
THAT BEING A COUPLE OF USES I
THINK AGAIN NOT SPEAKING FOR
THAT POLICY BUT AT THAT
CONVERSATION I THINK THOSE
FEARS HAVE STARTED TO ROLL AWAY
AS WE&apos;VE EXPERIENCED IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT THESE UNITS HAVE
BEEN ESTABLISHED AND THE CITY
IS STILL FUNCTIONING LARGELY IT
DOESN&apos;T SEEM TO HAVE A NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON A LOT OF BUSINESS
AREAS.
SO THERE WAS I THINK A LOT
OF PERHAPS THERE&apos;S AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GO FURTHER AND
BE MORE FLEXIBLE WITH THESE AND
THAT&apos;S HOW WE GOT TO THE
FRAMEWORK THAT WE HAVE HERE AND
ALEXIS IS SHAKING HER HEAD NO.
&gt;&gt; OH WELL I WOULD ONLY ADD
THAT WE WERE REGULATING WHAT WE
THOUGHT OF THE INDUSTRY WOULD
BE LIKE WE WERE BASICALLY
TRYING TO REGULATE FOR A BRAND
NEW INDUSTRY THAT HAD VERY
LITTLE HISTORY.
NOW THAT WE HAVE SOME YEARS
UNDER OUR AND EXACTLY WHAT
BRETT HAD TALKED ABOUT, WE
THOUGHT THAT LIMITING AND
SPREADING AND SPREADING OUT
WOULD BE BETTER.
WE BOTH HAVE EXPERIENCE AND THE
INDUSTRY IS MATURING AND ALSO
THE REGULATIONS ARE A LITTLE
BIT CHANGING.
SO NOW I THINK THE BENEFIT IS
OUR EXPERIENCE IS SHOWING THAT
THE INDUSTRY IS WHAT IS
BASICALLY NOT SPREAD OUT AROUND
OUR CITY.
IT&apos;S CONCENTRATED BUT ALSO I
THINK WE ASSUMED THAT THE
BIGGER OPERATIONS WOULD JUST
GET BIGGER, WOULD BE GETTING A
DIFFERENT LICENSES, SINGLE
LICENSES.
BUT THE STATE IS CHANGING HOW
THEY REGULATE IT AND WE DIDN&apos;T
KNOW THAT AT THE TIME AND
THEY&apos;RE NOT GIVING
ONE THE
NUMBERS WHAT WORK BUT FOR
DISCUSSION THEY&apos;RE NOT GIVING
PERMIT A LICENSE AND THERE ARET
FIVE THOUSAND AND A TEN
OUSAHEY&apos;RE ISSUING TWO OR
THREE FIVE THOUSAND PLANT
PERMITS.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE A TEN THOUSAND
OPTIONS SO OUR CHANGE MEANS
THAT THE SAME EXACT FACILITIES
CAN GO IN PLACE AND WILL NOT
LITERALLY SPREAD OUT.
I THINK THIS IS ACTUALLY
HELPING US.
OUR REGULATIONS ARE NOW TURNING
MIGHT TURN OUT TO HARM US AND
FORCING GROWERS ONCE FACILITY
TO LITERALLY SPREAD OUT.
BUT IF WE TAKE IF WE MAKE THESE
CHANGES THAT CAN BE MORE
COMPACT AND THEY CAN DO THE
SAME THINGS THAT THEY WANT TO
DO IN THEIR EXISTING BUILDING,
WE&apos;RE NOT FORCING THEM TO
SPREAD.
THIS IS A I THINK A COMBINATION
OF EXPERIENCE NOW WE ALSO KNOW
HOW THE INDUSTRY IS BEING
REGULATED.
WE CAN MATCH BETTER.
I THINK THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
BENEFITS TO MAKING THIS CHANGE
FOR OUR CITY IS THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
FORCING PEOPLE TO SEPARATE FROM
THEMSELVES TO FIND ADDITIONAL
WHAT THEY CAN DO MORE IN THE
SAME SPACE THEY CAN IDENTIFY,
IF YOU WILL, COMMISSIONER
BRANDELL, I&apos;M GOING TO NEED
SOME REMINDING ON US BECAUSE I
KNOW I THINK IT WAS WITH THE
GROWE LICENSE THAT YOU WERE
REQUIRED TO DO A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF SOLAR AND I WANT TO
UNDERSTAND THE IMPLICATIONS
OF THIS BECAUSE WHAT I DO NOT
WANT IS TO BE ABLE TO GET OUT
THAT OR TO MINIMIZE THAT
BECAUSE THIS INDUSTRY IS JUST
AN ENORMOUS ENERGY HOG AND IT
IS COMPLETELY ANTITHETICAL TO
OUR ZERO GOALS AND SO I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT IF WE MAKE THIS
CHANGE WE ARE NOT COMPROMISING
THAT AT ALL.
NO CHANGE AGAIN, WE&apos;RE NOT
CHANGING ANY OF THE
REQUIREMENTS ASSOCIATED WITH
THE NEWS FACILITIES.
WE&apos;RE NOT CHANGING THE ZONES IN
WHICH THEY&apos;RE ALLOWED IS ONLY
HOW THEY CAN BE REALIZED IN
THOSE ZONES IN MULTIPLES AS
OPPOSED TO ONE PER LOT.
SO THERE WOULD BE NO CHANGE TO
WE REQUIRE I FORGET THE
PERCENTAGE BUT WE REQUIRE A
PERCENTAGE OF THE ANTICIPATED
ENERGY LOAD TO BE PROVIDED VIA
ONSITE SOLAR RENEWABLE FOR
GROWE FACILITIES AND FOR MICRO
BUSINESSES WHICH INCLUDES A
GROW COMPONENT.
&gt;&gt; NO CHANGE TO THOSE
REQUIREMENTS SO YOU ADDED THAT
COMPONENT TO YOUR LOT AND YOU
DID NOT HAVE SOLAR BECAUSE YOU
WEREN&apos;T DOING THAT YOU WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO ADD SOLAR BECAUSE
YOU&apos;RE DOING THAT CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S I WANT TO KNOW
THANK YOU.
BUT TO BE CLEAR FOR THAT USE
THE REQUIREMENT DOESN&apos;T APPLY
TO A PROVISIONING CENTER.
&gt;&gt; IT DOESN&apos;T REQUIRE OTHER
THAN THE BED.
THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
OK AND I SMALL AMENDMENT
BECAUSE IT&apos;S BASED ON THE
PERCENTAGE OF ANNUAL
ELECTRICITY USED IF YOU NEED TO
ADD MORE LIGHTS WHATEVER TO
GROW MORE PLANTS AND YOU
GENERATE MORE ELECTRICITY, YOU
HAVE TO ADD SOLAR PANELS TO SO
THEN THE PETITIONER WOULD BE
REQUIRED TO PROJECT WHAT THAT
WOULD BE IN ORDER TO BE ABLE TO
ADD ADDITIONAL SOLAR PANELS.
OK, OTHER QUESTIONS COMMENTS GO
AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
I JUST THOUGHT A POINT
OF CLARIFICATION FOR STAFF
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE ALL OTHER ZONING
DISTRICTS WHERE THIS IS
PERMISSIBLE RIGHT NOW SAY THE
DISTRICT SEE DISTRICTS THOSE
ARE STILL ONE LICENSE AND SO
THOSE INTENSITIES AREN&apos;T
CHANGING WITH THE STACKING
OF LICENSES CORRECT?
WELL, THE CHANGE WOULD MAKE IT
THE CHANGE DOES.
SO YOU CAN SAY THAT THAT&apos;S THE
BOTTOM LINE IS THE CHANGE IS IT
NOW YOU CAN STACK AS MANY
LICENSES AS YOU&apos;RE PERMITTED TO
HAVE BEFORE THE THE MOST CHANGE
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO SEE THOUGH IS
IN THE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS AND
THIS IS THE INDUSTRIAL EXODUS
BECAUSE THOSE ARE THE ONES THAT
ALLOW THE MOST TYPES
OF FACILITIES IN THE THE
DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS AND THE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
ON THE ONE HAND YOU&apos;LL BE ABLE
TO STACK LICENSES BUT WE STILL
HAVE ALL OF THE SEPARATION
RESTRICTIONS AND THEN JUST THE
PLAIN FACT IS THAT A PERMITTED
USE ARE NOT RESTRICTION.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS WHAT WE&apos;RE SAYING
YEAH, I GUESS SPECIFICALLY I&apos;M
READING THAT I&apos;M ONE TO KIDNAP
UP TO FIVE LICENSES OR L UP TO
TWO ALL OTHER ZONING DISTRICTS
THAT&apos;S ALL GONE.
THAT&apos;S GONE AND NOW ALL OF THEM
ARE COMPLETELY OPENED UP.
THAT&apos;S THE TRANSITION RIGHT TO
OUR FOR STACKING PURPOSES AND
VARIETY PURPOSES THAT BOTH
COMPONENTS ARE GONE.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT REMAINS IS SIX
HUNDRED FEET BETWEEN
PROVISIONING CENTERS AND
PROVISIONING CENTERS AND JUST
THE PLANO PERMITTED USES.
YOU CAN&apos;T HAVE A GROWER INDEED
YOU JUST CAN&apos;T HAVE BRACO SO
YOU CAN&apos;T START A BUSINESS
ABOUT THAT TYPE OF YEAH.
THOSE ARE THE KIND OF THINGS
LIKE THE MATRAH OF USE ZONING
DISTRICT CONVERSATION I WANT TO
JUST KIND OF HAVE A
CLARIFICATION IN CONVERSATION
SO THANKS FOR THE IN GENERAL
DISCUSSION PURPOSES WHAT IT
MEANS IN INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
IS ALL OF THE TYPES
OF FACILITIES CAN STACK IN THE
SAME LOT AND SO YOU CAN HAVE A
MUCH MORE A CRADLE TO GRAVE
OPERATION IF YOU WANT TO
DESCRIBE IT IS THAT THAT&apos;S
REALLY THE CHANGE THAT&apos;S
HAPPENING IN INDUSTRIAL
DISTRICTS.
YOU CAN STAY ON THE SAME BLOCK.
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE TO BE ALL NEXT
TO EACH OTHER DOWN THE STREET
COULD ALSO BE UNDER THE SAME
ROOF FOR THE REALLY THE ONLY
CHANGE AND SAY THAT WE&apos;RE
PROVISIONING CENTERS AND THE
DOWNTOWN AND THE COMMERCIAL
DISTRICTS AND OUR COMMERCIAL
CORRIDORS THE ONLY FUNCTIONAL
CHANGES THAT YOU CAN HAVE A
PROVISIONING CENTER RETAILER
AND A CONSUMPTION FACILITY IN
THE SAME BUILDING, SAME BLOCK
YOU CAN&apos;T HAVE MULTIPLE
PROVISIONING CENTERS UNDER
DIFFERENT AGAIN UNDER DIFFERENT
OWNERSHIP BECAUSE THEY
LITERALLY NEED TO BE SIX OR
EIGHT FEET APART FROM EACH
OTHER.
YOU ALSO CAN&apos;T HAVE A
COMBINATION OF THE PROVISIONING
CENTER RETAILER AND A MICRO
BUSINESS BECAUSE THOSE GUYS
ALSO NEED TO BE THEY LITERALLY
NEED TO BE SIX HUNDRED FEET
APART.
SO REALLY THE ONLY STACKING
THAT&apos;S POSSIBLE JUST FOR
DISCUSSION PURPOSES IS THAT THE
SUMPTION FACILITY CAN LOCATE IN
THE SAME BUILDING DOWN SIDE BY
SIDE OR WHATEVER AS THE
PROVISIONING CENTER.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S SORT OF THE BOOTS ON
THE GROUND CHANGES FOR
DISCUSSION LEVEL.
BUT AGAIN THE PERMITTED IS
WHERE THEY CAN GO IN THE FIRST
PLACE NOT CHANGING AND THE
OTHER THE NUMBER TWENTY EIGHT
NOT CHANGING THE NOT THE NUMBER
OF SIX HUNDRED FEET OR A
THOUSAND FEET NOT CHANGING.
I THINK THAT&apos;S HELPFUL.
THANK ITS I GUESS AS KIND OF A
POINT OF CLARIFICATION OF WHERE
THIS INTENSITY REALLY DOES
HAPPEN LIKE WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
STACKING BUT BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
ONLY SO MANY PERMITTED USES YOU
KNOW IT READS LIKE IT OPENS UP
A LOT FROM ONE LICENSE TO MANY
BUT THERE&apos;S MANY LESS PERMITTED
USES AND STRONGER REGULATION IN
THOSE DISTRICTS AS WELL.
THAT REBALANCES.
SO I FEEL REALLY COMFORTABLE
WITH THIS OTHER COMMENTS I WILL
SAY I DO REMEMBER TALKING ABOUT
THE SIDO SEE BUT I FEEL LIKE IT
WAS A WHILE AGO THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT IT AT OAC AND MY MEMORY
IT IT I DON&apos;T KNOW I MEAN I
CAN&apos;T REMEMBER YOUR NAMES
TONIGHT SO UH I THINK THE POINT
THAT WAS JUST MADE ABOUT THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN KIND
OF DISPENSING FACILITIES I ALSO
RECALL THAT WE TALKED A BIT
ABOUT THIS NOT TOO LONG AFTER
WE HAD APPROVED THE CONSUMPTION
FACILITY DOWNTOWN WHICH WAS
RIGHT NEXT TO A PROVISIONING
CENTER.
BUT IT HAD TO BECAUSE OF OUR
CURRENT LAW IT COULD NOT BE ON
THAT SAME LOT AND UNDERSTANDING
THE AIR SEALING REQUIREMENTS
ASSOCIATED WITH THE CONSUMPTION
FACILITY.
&gt;&gt; SO IN MOST OF THE SITUATIONS
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT AND I WANT
TO BE CLEAR MOST OF THE
SITUATIONS THAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT WHERE WE HAVE
NEIGHBORHOODS NEARER TO RETAIL
FACILITIES IF THE ONLY STACKING
POSSIBILITY WOULD BE WITH A
CONSUMPTION FACILITY, THE
SEALING REQUIREMENTS SUGGESTED
TO ME LIKE THEY WOULD BE HELD
TO A MUCH HIGHER STANDARD THAN
FOLKS TAKING PRODUCT FROM THE
RETAILING FACILITY.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK THAT PEOPLE
WHO ARE NORC LIKE WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS A LITTLE BIT I THINK
AND SO THAT SEEMED IN SOME WAYS
TO WHILE YES IT MAY BE MORE
OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
ASSOCIATED WITH IT, IT MAY
ACTUALLY LEND ITSELF TO TO A
CONSOLIDATION THAT COULD HAVE
ADDITIONAL BENEFITS ASSOCIATED
WITH IT.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
THOUGH ABOUT THIS.
THIS IS ALL ON THAT ONE AND IN
CASE PEOPLE JUST TO KNOW WE
ALSO HAVE STREET TREES UM
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS.
BUT COMMISSIONER, YOU ARE
WELCOME TO PROVIDE COMMENT OR
QUESTIONS ON ANY OF THOSE
THREE.
&gt;&gt; YES, SOUNDS GOOD.
THANK YOU.
UM SO JUST WANTED AS A POINT
OF INFORMATION AT THE MINIMUM
OF 10 PERCENT OF ENERGY USERS
NEED TO BE IN SOLAR PANELS FOR
MARIJUANA FACILITIES THAT&apos;S IN
SECTION SEVEN.
ALL OF THE REGULATIONS WITH
RESPECT TO GETTING THE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET FROM PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AS WELL AS 600 FEET FROM ANY
OTHER LOTS ARE STILL IN EFFECT
.
THERE&apos;S STILL A LOT
OF REGULATIONS IN THIS
ORDINANCE ABOUT EMANATION
OF VOTERS LIKE NONE OF THOSE
ARE GETTING DEREGULATED HERE.
SO I THINK REALLY TO ME WHERE
WHERE IT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE
IS FROM FOR EXAMPLE, THE
CONCEPT OF SAFETY
COMPLIANCE
LAB NEXT TO A GROWER OR
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES.
SO IT&apos;S LIKE SO I DO HEAR WHAT
PLANNER DUILIO IS SAYING WITH
RESPECT TO YOU ALMOST ARE
CREATING A LITTLE MORE DENSITY
RATHER THAN HAVING IT SPREAD
OUT FURTHER SO THAT THAT JUST
WANTED TO POINT OUT THAT THE
SOLAR PANEL REQUIREMENT FOR
GROWING FACILITIES IS STILL AT
10 PERCENT OF ENERGY USAGE.
THOSE ARE THE TWO KIND OF JUST
I GUESS FACTUAL STATEMENTS I
WANTED TO MAKE STREET TREES
GROW.
ALL OF THAT MAKES SENSE TO ME.
SO I&apos;M OBVIOUSLY IN SUPPORT
OF THAT AS WELL AS THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS.
I JUST WANTED TO AT LEAST BRING
OUR ATTENTION TO THE TWO OTHER
DISCUSSION POINTS THAT WE HAVE
HERE.
SO THANKS.
&gt;&gt; WHILE WE&apos;RE TALKING STREET
TREES, THIS IS A QUESTION FOR
STAFF ABOUT WHERE THIS AROSE.
MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE IMPACT
OF THIS IS THAT IT WILL LEAD TO
FEWER STREET TREES BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE EXCLUDING NOW THAT CURB
CUT PORTION.
WAS THIS A PRACTICAL
CONSIDERATION OR HOW DID HOW
DID THIS COME TO BE AND IS
THERE CONCERN ANYWHERE WITHIN
AMONG PLANNING STAFF OR THE
STREET TREE PEOPLE?
THE URBAN FORESTER PERSON ON
THAT IT WAS IT WAS URBAN
FORESTRY WHO WHO REQUESTED THIS
THE STREET TREE ROLLS WERE NOT
ORIGINALLY IN CODE FOR A LONG
TIME.
THEY EXISTED OUTSIDE OF CODE IN
THE DEVELOPMENT REGULATION
ATTACHMENTS WHICH WERE WHICH
WERE REFERENCED BY CODE BUT
WERE NOT A PART OF CODE.
SO WHEN ISSUES LIKE THIS CAME
UP WHERE THERE WAS LITERALLY
NOT ENOUGH ROOM FOR STREET TREE
IT WAS DEALT WITH
ADMINISTRATIVELY A WAIVER IF
YOU WILL.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN AS PART OF THE
ZORLU APPLICATION AND WHEN WE
MOVED FROM THE INDIVIDUAL
CHAPTERS TO THE CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE THE UDC STREETER&apos;S WITHIN
THE CODE AND I CAN&apos;T I KNOW
THERE&apos;S BEEN A ONE OR TWO
THERE&apos;S BEEN SOME VARIANCES I
THINK FOR BECAUSE NOW WHEN IT&apos;S
IN THE UDC THE ONLY WAY TO GET
OUT OF IT IS A VARIANCE OR THIS
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION SECTION
AND THIS COMES INTO PLAY WHEN
YOU HAVE A PRETTY SMALL WHAT IF
YOUR LOT IS ONLY SAY SO WHITE
OR IF YOU&apos;RE AROUND UP IN
STREET TREES?
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE SO IF YOU&apos;RE A LOT
OF LIKE SIXTY FEET WIDE YOU&apos;RE
SUPPOSED TO HAVE TWO OR THREE
ROOMS BUT YOUR DRIVEWAY TAKES
UP THIRTY FEET AND SO IN
REMAINING THIRTY FEET YOU HAVE
TO HAVE BEEN TWO TREES.
IT&apos;S NOT HEALTHY FOR THE TREES
ARE REINFORCER.
SHE REQUESTED THIS BECAUSE WE
NEED SHE WAS WANTING TO EXCLUDE
WHEN YOU CAN&apos;T PLANT TREES IN
CONCRETE AND OR WHEN YOU NEED
TO DRIVE SO THEY&apos;RE FINE WITH
IT.
&gt;&gt; THE REASON WHY YOU MIGHT
THINK OH THIS IS HAS THIS
REALLY BEEN AN ISSUE IN THE
PAST FOR MANY YEARS IT WASN&apos;T
BECAUSE THIS WAS NOT A
CODE REQUIREMENT.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS A POLICY AND IT WAS
DEALT WITH ADMINISTRATIVELY
BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
VARIANCES AND WE THOUGHT THIS
IS MAYBE NOT SUCH A BAD THING.
MAYBE THIS IS JUST REALLY A
MODIFICATION THING.
SO NOT ONLY DID WE MAKE THE
LINEAR MEASUREMENT ADJUSTMENT
AS REQUESTED BY FORESTRY, WE
ADDED THE COMPONENT LET&apos;S GET
SOME FLEXIBILITY.
THAT&apos;S NOT SO STRICT IS A
VARIANCE BUT THAT RECOGNIZES
WHEN YOU HAVE SOME HARDSHIPS
FOR THE HEALTH OF THE TREE.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS GREAT BACKGROUND.
YES.
COMMISSIONER RANDALL, THANK YOU
FOR MAKING THIS CHANGE.
IT WAS REALLY DIFFICULT TO
FOLLOW IN THE CODE BEFORE ABOUT
WHAT WAS REQUIRED IN CLARIFIES
IT A WHOLE LOT AND I APPRECIATE
THE FLEXIBILITY WITH IT TO SO
I&apos;M GRATEFUL THAT YOU ALL
RECOGNIZE AND THE CITY FORESTER
BROUGHT IT FORWARD TO BE ABLE
TO CHANGE.
ARE WE DEALING IS THIS A
DIFFERENT SECTION THAN THE THE
ISLAND BUSINESS OR IS THIS PART
IS THIS PART OF THE SAME
DISCUSSION THAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT WITH THE LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS OR SHOULD WE MEET?
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
ALL OF THEM ARE OK.
I WOULD SAY THAT I WOULD
BETWEEN NOW AND COUNCIL WHEN
YOU TALK ABOUT THE LANDSCAPE,
THE DEPRESSED LANDSCAPE ISLANDS
FOR STORMWATER, I THINK USING
THE WORD CLAY IS TOO VAGUE AND
THAT I WOULD USE MORE SPECIFIC
TERMINOLOGY ABOUT THE TYPE
OF SOILS THAT USUALLY REQUIRE
YOU TO NOT YOU KNOW, BECAUSE
SOME CLAY SOILS WILL BE OK AND
SO I WOULD USE LANGUAGE MORE
AROUND LIKE C AND D SOILS
RATHER THAN A AND B SOILS
BECAUSE AND DOUBLECHECK ABOUT
THAT.
BUT THAT&apos;S JUST GOING TO BE WAY
CLAY.
YOU COULD JUST BE PRETTY VAGUE
ABOUT THAT IN TERMS OF THE SOIL
TYPES THAT YOU HAVE AND THERE
ARE LOTS OF DIFFERENT KINDS
OF CLAY IN TERMS
OF INFILTRATION RATES AND NONE
OF THEM ARE LIKE FANTASTIC AND
SOILS WHICH WOULD INFILTRATE
REALLY QUICKLY BUT BE SOILS YOU
MIGHT BE FINE, YOU KNOW, WITH
IT.
SO I THINK CLAY IS A LITTLE
VAGUE.
&gt;&gt; I USED CLAY IN THE
POWERPOINT BUT IN THE ACTUAL
CODE .
SO YOU&apos;RE YOUR EXPERT OPINION
PLEASE IN THE ACTUAL
CODE ITSELF, SOIL CONDITIONS
UNDERLYING THE REQUIRED
LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING AREA
PREVENT STRICT APPLICATION
OF THE REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE FOR
EXAMPLE SOILS ARE CONTAMINATED
,SOILS ARE UNSUITABLE FOR
INFILTRATION OR THERE IS A
SIGNIFICANTLY SIZED AND SHALLOW
DEPTH PUBLIC UTILITIES SUCH AS
A MAIN OR ENCLOSED CULVERT .
&gt;&gt; SO DO YOU THINK SOILS ARE
UNSUITABLE FOR INFILTRATION?
IS THAT EITHER ENOUGH OR TOO
BROAD?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S PROBABLY OK
UNSUITABLE MEANING YOU&apos;RE NOT
GOING TO GET MUCH INFILTRATION
.
IT&apos;S NOT REALLY DEFINING IT SO
A WHOLE LOT SO YOU MAY GET SOME
PEOPLE KIND OF GETTING A LITTLE
WISHY WASHY WITH THAT.
YEAH.
ABOUT SORT OF HOW QUICKLY THEY
INFILTRATE VERSUS NOT IF YOU&apos;RE
NOT GIVING A THRESHOLD FOR THAT
FOR FOR ALL OF THESE
MODIFICATIONS FOR THE PROCEDURE
IS THIS SECTION WOLANSKI
MODIFICATIONS BOTH GIVES YOU
THE SECTIONS YOU CAN MODIFY
FROM VERY SPECIFICALLY YOU
CANNOT MODIFY EVERY STANDARD
BUT THESE ARE THE SIX, SEVEN
AND THEN WE&apos;VE PREDETERMINED IT
MUST BE FOR ONE OF THESE
PREDEFINED REASONS AND THEY&apos;LL
NEED TO THE APPLICANT WILL NEED
TO SAY HEY, I THINK I FIT THIS
BUT PLANNING GENERALLY AND
CERTAINLY OUR URBAN FORESTER
THEY PROVIDE IT&apos;S A SEPARATE
MOTION OR IF IT&apos;S NOT A
SEPARATE MOTION IT&apos;S
SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT IN THE
MOTION FOR APPROVAL.
IT&apos;S CYCLING APPROVAL WITH
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION AND OUR
URBAN FORESTER PROVIDES THAT
RECOMMENDATION.
&gt;&gt; AND SO YOU KNOW, ALL THIS IS
SPEAKING TO THE STANDARD NEEDS
TO BE BOTH SUPPORTED OR OFFERED
BY THE APPLICANT SUPPORTED BY
OUR STAFF AND THEN ULTIMATELY
APPROVED AND IT MAY BE DENIED
SO IT EVEN IF SOMEONE HAS SAID
I&apos;VE GOT SOIL SEE WELL IF OUR
EXPERTS IF OUR LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT REINFORCERS SAY YEAH
YOU DO.
BUT IT&apos;S ALSO SPECIAL
CONDITIONS THIS WE DON&apos;T
SUPPORT IT.
&gt;&gt; YOU GOT THIS ENTITLEMENT I
SHOULD SAY IT&apos;S JUST A TOOL.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT SEEMS FINE TO ME
THEN AS LONG AS IT HAS ANOTHER
ANOTHER FILTER ON IT
OF APPROVAL THEN THAT SEEMS
FINE TO ME.
THANK YOU.
ANY ONE ELSE ON THE THREE UTC
MODIFICATIONS YOU CAN SPEAK TO
ANY OR ALL.
ALL RIGHT, MR. LEONARD, I THINK
WE ARE READY FOR A VOTE
.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES, COMMISSIONER BRANDLE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WAGE.
BUSHWACKERS VERY GOOD.
YES.
&gt;&gt; THAT TAKES US THROUGH EIGHT
BUSHWACKERS VERY GOOD.
GIVEN THAT IT&apos;S ALMOST NINE.
&gt;&gt; THAT TAKES US THROUGH EIGHT
CAN WE TAKE SIX MINUTE BREAK
GIVEN THAT IT&apos;S ALMOST NINE.
AND COME BACK.
CAN WE TAKE SIX MINUTE BREAK
YOU CAN&apos;T RUN TO REFILL YOUR
AND COME BACK.
WATER AT HOME RUN YOUR
YOU CAN&apos;T RUN TO REFILL YOUR
REFRIGERATOR ANYMORE BUT YOU
WATER AT HOME RUN YOUR
CAN RUN TO THE BATHROOM
TO
ORDER.
SO WE&apos;RE ALL HERE.
YES, YES, YES.
OK SO THAT WE CAN TAKE UP MOVE
ON TO ITEM NINE WHICH IS THE
ANIBA CHINESE CHURCH EXPANSION
FOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL AND I&apos;M NOT SURE IF IS
THE PETITIONER JOINING US OR
ARE WE GOING RIGHT TO THE STAFF
REPORT?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE GOING TO PUT IT THIS
TIME I HATED THE PETITIONER.
I&apos;M GOING TO DO A SHORT
PRESENTATION AND THEY ARE
AVAILABLE IF THERE&apos;S ANY
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; EXCELLENT.
SO MR. KAWALSKY, WHENEVER YOU
WANT TO TAKE IT AWAY, GO FOR
IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M GOING TO TRY AS I SAID, A
BRIEF PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; I SHOULD BE SHARING MY
SCREEN HERE IN A MINUTE.
HOPEFULLY THAT IS IS EVERYBODY
SEEING MY SCREEN CORRECTLY?
HOPEFULLY YEP.
ALL RIGHT, GOOD.
NOW WILL TRY TO ADVANCE OK THAT
DID MOVE TO THE ZONING SCREEN.
&gt;&gt; IT DID.
WE&apos;RE SEEING A MAP OK I WANT TO
MAKE SURE I&apos;VE HAD SOME ISSUES
WHERE THE SCREENS AREN&apos;T
ADVANCING SO OK AGAIN REALLY
BRIEFLY GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY
AGAIN THAT KAWALSKY HERE
INTRODUCING THE ENTIRE CHINESE
CHRISTIAN CHURCH I&apos;M GOING TO
GO THROUGH A REALLY BRIEF
PRESENTATION HERE TONIGHT.
THIS IS A PROJECT AGAIN THAT
MAY SEEM VERY FAMILIAR TO YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO AGAIN, TO SUMMARIZE THE
STAFF REPORT IN JUST ONE MINUTE
WE&apos;LL GIVE A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND HERE.
YOU CAN SEE THE SUBJECT
PARCEL&apos;S OUTLINED BY THE YELLOW
HIGHLIGHTED AREA RIGHT THERE ON
DUVAN JUST EAST OF PONTIAC
TRAIL.
AGAIN YOU CAN SEE AN AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
THE CHURCH LOCATED KIND OF IN
THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF THE
SITE A LITTLE BIT CLOSER IN
HERE.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO AND WHAT AGAIN THIS
YOU MATE OBVIOUSLY YOU WILL
RECOGNIZE THIS PROJECT THAT WAS
BEFORE IN DECEMBER OF TWENTY
TWENTY ONE.
SO ABOUT THREE MONTHS AGO FOR
SITE PLAN APPROVAL AS WELL AS
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE APPROVAL
AND AT THAT TIME THE PROJECT
WAS RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL
CONTINGENT UPON VARIANCES BEING
GRANTED BY THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
SO WITH THAT IN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ALSO APPROVED THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE.
HOWEVER SINCE THAT TIME
PLANNING COMMISSION IS WELL
AWARE WE&apos;VE HAD NUMEROUS
CODE REVISIONS, ONE OF WHICH
THAT NOW MADE THIS PROJECT
APPROVABLE BY CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
BUT WHEN IT WAS IN FRONT OF YOU
IN DECEMBER THAT ACTION WAS FOR
A RECOMMENDATION.
SO BASICALLY IT&apos;S BACK BEFORE
TONIGHT FOR AN APPROVAL.
SO IF THIS IS APPROVED HERE
TONIGHT, THIS WOULD BE THE LAST
STOP.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS YOU&apos;LL
NOTICE IS NOT INCLUDED TONIGHT
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS APPROVED
AND IT HAS ALWAYS BEEN APPROVED
BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WAS AGAIN APPROVED
IN DECEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY
ONE.
SO THAT DID NOT NEED TO BE
BEFORE YOU HERE TONIGHT.
SOME OF THE CHANGES MOST
NOTABLY AS I MENTIONED IS THAT
THE PROJECT DID REQUIRE A
COUPLE OF VARIANCES FROM THE
ZONING BOARD APPEALS THAT
HAPPENED AFTER YOUR
RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL IN
DECEMBER OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
SO THIS WAS BEFORE THE ZIBA IN
FEBRUARY OF THIS YEAR.
SO THEY WERE GRANTED THE
PETITIONER WAS GRANTED ACTUALLY
A LOT OF BACK UP A LITTLE BIT.
THEY HAD TWO VARIOUS REQUESTS.
ONE IF YOU REMEMBER WAS FOR
SEVENTEEN SPACES OF THE FOUR
THE STANDARD PARKING AMOUNT.
THOSE WERE SPACES WERE PROVIDED
ACROSS THE STREET AT THE FOOT
SORRY THE I&apos;M TRYING TO BUY
CARROWAY THE CARROWAY
DEVELOPMENT ACROSS THE STREET
IN THE WAREHOUSE THERE SO THAT
THAT VARIANCE WAS APPROVED AS
REQUESTED FOR THE SIXTY THREE
SORRY THEY HAVE SIXTY THREE ON
SITE THERE WAS A 17 FACE
VARIANCE.
THE SECOND VARIANCE IT WAS
BEFORE YOU DECEMBER THEY WERE
PROPOSING TO INSTALL AT THAT
TIME THEY ARE PROPOSING TO
RESTORE
FIXED SO THEY INCREASE
THE REQUIRED STAY.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT MY NOTES HERE
THE PETITIONER ADDED THE SIX EV
CAPABLE SPACE 2.0 AT THAT TIME
THEY&apos;RE PROPOSING FOR EACH
OF THESE SPACES ORIGINALLY WHEN
THIS PLAN WAS BEFORE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THOSE SPACES IN
THE AREA PLANNER ARE KIND
OF ADJACENT TO WHERE THE NEW
BUILDING ADDITION IS GOING AND
THROUGH THE DISCUSSION AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THERE IT
WAS NOTICE THAT SOME OF THE
GRADES IN THAT AREA WERE A
LITTLE BIT STEEP.
SO AS A RESULT AS WELL AS THERE
IS SOME CONCERN ABOUT THE
NUMBER OF SPACES THAT WERE
PROPOSED.
SO AS A RESULT OF THAT
DISCUSSION THEY DID EVEN OUT
THE GRADES A LITTLE BIT MORE
THEY SO WHICH RESULTED IN A
LITTLE BIT OF AN ADDITIONAL
DISRUPTION TO THE EXISTING
PARKING LOT.
SO WITH THAT THEY TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF THAT AND ARE
INSTALLING ADDITIONAL SIX
CAPABLE SPACES.
SO AGAIN KIND OF AS A RESULT
OF SOME PLANNING DISCUSSION,
THE GRADES WERE CHANGED A
LITTLE BIT THERE AN ADDITIONAL
SIX SPACES THAT WERE ADDED.
&gt;&gt; SO NOW A TOTAL OF 10 SPACES
AND THAT VARIANCE WAS GRANTED
BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
SO RIGHT NOW THE PLAN YOU SEE
BEFORE YOU HAVE A TOTAL OF 10
SPACES, EIGHT OF THEM ARE
CAPABLE AND TWO OF THEM ARE
EVEN INSTALLED SPACES AND AGAIN
I JUST SAID I&apos;LL ZOOM IN A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
AGAIN, THE MAIN SUBJECT OF THE
REQUESTS AGAIN FOR THE SITE
PLAN BEFORE YOU IS THE NEW
PROPOSED BUILDING HERE, THE
MULTIUSE BUILDING.
IT&apos;S A TWO STORY ABOUT NINETY
TWO HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
MULTIUSE BUILDING AS AN
ADDITION TO THE EXISTING CHURCH
BUILDING HERE YOU WILL SEE
WHERE THE LIMITS OF GRADING I
WANTED TO FOCUS IN ON THAT SO
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE
ADDITIONAL SPACES WERE AT IT
AND AGAIN THEY DID COVER THE
GRADING CHANGES AS WELL AS THE
VARIANCES THAT HAVE BEEN
GRANTED.
THERE HAVE BEEN NO OTHER
CHANGES PROPOSED TO THE PLANET.
SO THE PLAN SINCE YOU GUYS HAVE
LAST SEEN IT IN DECEMBER.
SO WITH THAT I WOULD CONCLUDE
MY STAFF PRESENTATION IS THAT
IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL VERY
GOOD.
&gt;&gt; NOW WE WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE ANN
ARBOR CHINESE CHRISTIAN CHURCH
SITE PLAN THAT IS FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
WE&apos;LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
THAT ARE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU HAVE DIALED IN AND
ARE LISTENING BY TELEPHONE, YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE TO INDICATE
YOUR INTEREST IN PARTICIPATING
IN THE PUBLIC HEARING.
IF YOU HAVE JOINED THROUGH THE
WEB LINK YOU CAN PRESS THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON AND IF
YOU&apos;RE WATCHING US RIGHT NOW
YOU CAN DIAL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND THEN ENTER OUR
MEETING ID WHICH IS NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
TWELVE TWENTY SIX AND ONCE YOU
GET IN THEN YOU CAN PRESS STAR
NINE PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY AND PER OUR USUAL
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS ANYONE IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS
LOOKING TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MR. LEONARD, ARE THERE ANY
INDICATIONS OF FOLKS JOINING
REMOTELY WHO WISH TO
PARTICIPATE?
&gt;&gt; NOPE.
ALL RIGHT THEN UP CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION BUT A HAND
SNEAKS IN.
&gt;&gt; JUST LET ME KNOW THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE ANN ARBOR CHINESE
CHRISTIAN CHURCH SITE PLAN
DATED MARCH 8TH TWENTY TWENTY
TWO AS THE SITE PLAN COMPLIES
WITH ALL APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS ORDINANCES
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE FOLLOWING LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION OPTIONS.
ONE ALLOW EXISTING LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS TO REMAIN WITHOUT A
RETENTION CAPACITY AND TO ALLOW
PARKING LOT TO CONTINUE WITH
GREATER THAN FIFTEEN SPACES IN
A ROW WITHOUT A LANDSCAPE
ISLAND.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THAT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT?
&gt;&gt; ANY DISCUSSION?
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER LEE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I APOLOGIZE IF THIS IS REDONDA
BUT PLEASE IF SOMEBODY COULD
REMIND ME WHY THERE&apos;S BILE
RETENTION REQUIRED FOR THE
ISLAND.
I IMAGINE WE TALKED ABOUT IT IN
DECEMBER BUT IF I COULD GET
THAT REMINDED I&apos;LL BE VERY
HELPFUL.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT WAS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED DUE TO THE NOT
PROPOSED DUE TO THE LIMITS
OF DISTURBANCE THAT WERE NOT
INCLUDING THOSE AREAS AND SOME
LANDSCAPING IN THAT.
SO THAT WAS THE ONE OF THE
ORIGINAL LANDSCAPE MOTIONS
SORRY LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
REQUESTS ORIGINALLY THAT WAS
GRANTED BACK IN DECEMBER BUT
BECAUSE IT WAS TIED DIRECTLY TO
THE SITE PLAN THAT&apos;S WHY IT&apos;S
INCLUDED AGAIN BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT.
SO THERE&apos;S NO CHANGES FROM WHAT
WAS INCLUDED IN THE DECEMBER
PLAN.
BUT BUT REALLY WHY IT WAS
GRANTED I BELIEVE THE FIRST
TIME WAS BECAUSE OF THE LACK
OF DISTURBANCE IN THOSE AREAS.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
OTHER QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
THIS SEEMS TO ME BASED ON YOUR
DESCRIPTION OF WHY WE&apos;RE SEEING
THIS AGAIN IS THAT IT WAS
CAUGHT IN THAT LIMBO.
&gt;&gt; JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY, IS
THERE A SENSE OF HOW MANY
ADDITIONAL PROPOSALS ARE IN
THAT SITUATION THAT WE&apos;RE GOING
TO HAVE DEJA VU ALL OVER AGAIN
?
I DON&apos;T I CAN TRY TO REPORT I
DON&apos;T THINK TOO MANY IN THESE
CIRCUMSTANCES WE HAD ONE THAT
WAS CAME BACK BECAUSE IT WAS
AWAITING A BROWNFIELD&apos;S PLAN
AND SO THAT&apos;S WHY IT DIDN&apos;T
PROCEED IMMEDIATELY TO THE CITY
COUNCIL IN THIS CASE A VARIANCE
WAS ASSOCIATED WITH IT OFF THE
TOP OF MY HEAD.
&gt;&gt; I DO NOT THINK OF A LOT
OF OTHER IN THAT EXAMPLE BUT I
CAN DO A QUICK ANALYSIS AND
SHARE THAT WITH THE COMMISSION
AT A FUTURE MEETING.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE DON&apos;T PUT ANY EFFORT
INTO THAT.
IT WAS JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY
BECAUSE I&apos;M I&apos;M JUST WONDERING
LIKE OUR CHANGES HAVE
CONSEQUENCES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
I GUESS THEN I&apos;M GOING TO GUESS
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN ZERO AND
THREE OK THAT IS I THINK IT&apos;S A
PRETTY LOW NUMBER BECAUSE I
DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHERS THAT ARE
BETWEEN THERE AND YEAH IT&apos;S
KIND OF UNUSUAL THAT IS THE
AMOUNT OF RESEARCH THAT I&apos;D
LIKE PUT INTO THE MATTER.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANYONE ELSE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT MR. LEONARD, I
THINK WE&apos;RE READY TO VOTE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES, COMMISSIONER BRANDELL.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER DISH.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER DISH.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
YES COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
WHICH YES.
YES COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; MOST ENCOURAGING ENORMOUSLY
WHICH YES.
IT&apos;S APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; MOST ENCOURAGING ENORMOUSLY
VERY GOOD.
IT&apos;S APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; NEXT UP IS MAYOR THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
&gt;&gt; NEXT UP IS MAYOR THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
&gt;&gt; BYE.
THANK YOU.
I CAN&apos;T SEE THAT NOW WHERE DID
&gt;&gt; BYE.
THAT VOICE COME FROM NOW WE
I CAN&apos;T SEE THAT NOW WHERE DID
KNOW ALL RIGHT.
THAT VOICE COME FROM NOW WE
&gt;&gt; NEXT UP IS ITEM NINE B WHICH
KNOW ALL RIGHT.
IS WE&apos;RE ONLY GOING TO HOLD THE
&gt;&gt; NEXT UP IS ITEM NINE B WHICH
PUBLIC HEARING AND THIS IS FOR
IS WE&apos;RE ONLY GOING TO HOLD THE
THE MAPLE TO FOR CITY PLANNING
PUBLIC HEARING AND THIS IS FOR
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THE MAPLE TO FOR CITY PLANNING
AND BEFORE WE OPEN THE PUBLIC
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
HEARING, IF YOU JUST WANT TO
AND BEFORE WE OPEN THE PUBLIC
QUICKLY REMIND US IT WAS
HEARING, IF YOU JUST WANT TO
BECAUSE THERE WERE YEAH.
QUICKLY REMIND US IT WAS
&gt;&gt; MR. KOWALSKI CAN PROVIDE AN
BECAUSE THERE WERE YEAH.
OVERVIEW OF WHY IT&apos;S BEING
&gt;&gt; MR. KOWALSKI CAN PROVIDE AN
RESCHEDULED.
OVERVIEW OF WHY IT&apos;S BEING
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC HEARING IS BEING
RESCHEDULED.
RESCHEDULED AND THEN I THINK WE
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC HEARING IS BEING
DO HAVE SOME PETITIONERS
RESCHEDULED AND THEN I THINK WE
AVAILABLE IF QUESTIONS ARISE.
DO HAVE SOME PETITIONERS
BUT I THINK BASED ON OUR AIR,
AVAILABLE IF QUESTIONS ARISE.
MR. KOWALSKI IS GOING TO
BUT I THINK BASED ON OUR AIR,
PROVIDE A SORT OF HIGH LEVEL
MR. KOWALSKI IS GOING TO
OVERVIEW OF THE PETITION AS
PROVIDE A SORT OF HIGH LEVEL
WELL AND THEN WE CAN PROCEED TO
OVERVIEW OF THE PETITION AS
THE PUBLIC HEARING IF YOU&apos;RE
WELL AND THEN WE CAN PROCEED TO
COMFORTABLE.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IF YOU&apos;RE
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
COMFORTABLE.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, MR. KOWALSKI.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
I HAVE A PRESENTATION OF COURSE
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, MR. KOWALSKI.
JUST REALLY THE HIGH LEVEL
I HAVE A PRESENTATION OF COURSE
OVERVIEW OF THE SO WHAT THE
JUST REALLY THE HIGH LEVEL
PROJECT IS.
OVERVIEW OF THE SO WHAT THE
WE GAVE YOU A BRIEF BACKGROUND
PROJECT IS.
EARLIER SEVEN UNIT APARTMENT
WE GAVE YOU A BRIEF BACKGROUND
COMPLEX.
EARLIER SEVEN UNIT APARTMENT
THERE ARE OTHERS MAYBE THREE
COMPLEX.
BUILDINGS.
THERE ARE OTHERS MAYBE THREE
EIGHTY SIX PARKING SPACES.
BUILDINGS.
IT&apos;S LOCATED ON THE CORNER
EIGHTY SIX PARKING SPACES.
OF MILLER AND MAPLE OF COURSE.
IT&apos;S LOCATED ON THE CORNER
AND THERE IS A SMALL WETLAND
OF MILLER AND MAPLE OF COURSE.
KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE OF WHERE
AND THERE IS A SMALL WETLAND
THE APARTMENTS ARE BEING
KIND OF IN THE MIDDLE OF WHERE
PROPOSED AND THAT REQUIRES A
THE APARTMENTS ARE BEING
WETLAND USE PERMIT BECAUSE THEY
PROPOSED AND THAT REQUIRES A
ARE MAINTAINING THAT WATER
WETLAND USE PERMIT BECAUSE THEY
BUDGET TO THAT.
ARE MAINTAINING THAT WATER
BUT THERE WILL BE SOME
BUDGET TO THAT.
ALTERATIONS WITHIN THERE AND
BUT THERE WILL BE SOME
UNFORTUNATELY THE FIRST PASS
ALTERATIONS WITHIN THERE AND
OF THE PUBLIC NOTICE DID NOT I
UNFORTUNATELY THE FIRST PASS
LEFT OUT THE WETLAND USE PERMIT
OF THE PUBLIC NOTICE DID NOT I
SO NOW WE SO OBVIOUSLY THAT&apos;S
LEFT OUT THE WETLAND USE PERMIT
AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE
SO NOW WE SO OBVIOUSLY THAT&apos;S
PETITION GOING FORWARD.
AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE
SO THAT WAS WHY WE HAVE NOTICED
PETITION GOING FORWARD.
THAT AGAIN FOR THE NEXT MEETING
SO THAT WAS WHY WE HAVE NOTICED
THAT WOULD INCLUDE THE WETLAND
THAT AGAIN FOR THE NEXT MEETING
USE PERMIT AT THAT TIME.
THAT WOULD INCLUDE THE WETLAND
ALL RIGHT.
USE PERMIT AT THAT TIME.
VERY GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
WE&apos;LL GET ALL OF THE DETAILS
VERY GOOD.
AND SEE WHAT THIS LOOKS LIKE
WE&apos;LL GET ALL OF THE DETAILS
THEN AT THE THE NEXT MEETING
AND SEE WHAT THIS LOOKS LIKE
WHICH IS IN A COUPLE IN A
THEN AT THE THE NEXT MEETING
COUPLE OF WEEKS.
WHICH IS IN A COUPLE IN A
UM SO WE WILL THEN MOVE TO THE
COUPLE OF WEEKS.
PUBLIC HEARING AS BEFORE IF
UM SO WE WILL THEN MOVE TO THE
YOU&apos;VE DIALED IN YOU CAN PRESS
PUBLIC HEARING AS BEFORE IF
STAR NINE IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
YOU&apos;VE DIALED IN YOU CAN PRESS
PARTICIPATE IN THE PUBLIC
STAR NINE IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
HEARING FOR THE MAPLE COVE TWO
PARTICIPATE IN THE PUBLIC
SITE PLAN IF YOU HAVE JOINED BY
HEARING FOR THE MAPLE COVE TWO
WEBLINK YOU CAN USE THE RAISED
SITE PLAN IF YOU HAVE JOINED BY
HAND BUTTON AND IF YOU&apos;RE
WEBLINK YOU CAN USE THE RAISED
WATCHING US NOW YOU CAN DIAL
HAND BUTTON AND IF YOU&apos;RE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
WATCHING US NOW YOU CAN DIAL
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THE MEETING IT IS NINE SEVEN
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
THE MEETING IT IS NINE SEVEN
TWELVE TWENTY SIX PLEASE STATE
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
TWELVE TWENTY SIX PLEASE STATE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS AND
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
I WANT TO MAKE CLEAR NOW THAT
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS AND
EVEN IF YOU PARTICIPATE THIS
I WANT TO MAKE CLEAR NOW THAT
WEEK YOU ARE WELCOME TO
EVEN IF YOU PARTICIPATE THIS
PARTICIPATE WHEN THIS COMES
WEEK YOU ARE WELCOME TO
BACK BEFORE US.
PARTICIPATE WHEN THIS COMES
SO IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE IN THE
BACK BEFORE US.
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SO IF THERE&apos;S ANYONE IN THE
PARTICIPATE IN PUBLIC GO AHEAD
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MR. GARBER.
PARTICIPATE IN PUBLIC GO AHEAD
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER.
CHAIR MILLS KEN BARBER.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
TWENTY EIGHT HAVING HELD COURT
CHAIR MILLS KEN BARBER.
I GUESS I GET TWO SHOTS AT THIS
TWENTY EIGHT HAVING HELD COURT
WHICH IS UNUSUAL BUT WELCOME
I GUESS I GET TWO SHOTS AT THIS
BUT IT&apos;S HARD TO COMMENT
WHICH IS UNUSUAL BUT WELCOME
TONIGHT ON THIS PETITION
BUT IT&apos;S HARD TO COMMENT
WITHOUT A FULL DEVELOPMENT TEAM
TONIGHT ON THIS PETITION
PRESENTATION AND STAFF REPORT
WITHOUT A FULL DEVELOPMENT TEAM
KIND OF OUT OF MY ELEMENT
PRESENTATION AND STAFF REPORT
WITHOUT THAT HELP I&apos;M GLAD
KIND OF OUT OF MY ELEMENT
THERE WILL BE ANOTHER PUBLIC
WITHOUT THAT HELP I&apos;M GLAD
HEARING
.
BUT IT LOOKS TO ME FROM A
DESIGN POINT OF VIEW THIS
STRIKES ME AS A PARKING LOT
STREWN WITH THREE BOKI
BUILDINGS SURROUNDING A SMALL
WETLAND NOT GREAT BUT
ACCEPTABLE.
THERE&apos;S NO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
M&apos;POKO.
ONE CHARGE IS MORE THAN
FOURTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS A
MONTH FOR A ONE BEDROOM
APARTMENT AND I DOUBT CO TWO
WILL GO LOWER.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S CRAZY EXPENSIVE AT
LEAST TO ME BUT THE PETITIONER
CAN CHARGE WHATEVER THE MARKET
CAN BEAR.
WHAT I HAVE REAL TROUBLE WITH
IS THE USE OF GAS TO HEAT THESE
BUILDINGS THIS TWENTY TWENTY
TWO WE&apos;RE IN A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY AND A CITY HAS A
CLIMATE ACTION PLAN THAT
ASSUMES NO NATURAL GAS IN NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
AS I WROTE EARLIER, GAS HEATING
AND NIPARKO TO GENERATE 910
METRIC TONS ANNUAL CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS FOR THE
CITY IS DEVELOPING A PROJECT TO
INSTALL THREE POINT MEGAWATTS
OF ROOFTOP SOLAR PANELS ON CITY
BUILDINGS.
THIS WILL PREVENT TWENTY SEVEN
HUNDRED METRIC TON CO2
ACCORDING TO OUR SIDE THAT CITY
SOLAR PROJECT WILL COST
TAXPAYERS SIX POINT SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS SO CO TWO JUST
BY BURNING GAS WILL WIPE OUT
FORTY ONE THIRD OF THOSE
EMISSION GAINS.
SO EVEN A MIDSIZE APARTMENT
COMPLEX LIKE THIS IF IT
PROCEEDS WITH GAS HEATING
REALLY UNDERMINES THE CITY&apos;S
DECARBONIZATION GOALS.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE CITY JUST
UNVEILED ITS GREEN RENTAL
HOUSING PLAN TO ENCOURAGE
LANDLORDS TO RETROFIT THEIR
EXISTING BUILDINGS WITH
ELECTRIFIED APPLIANCES
INCLUDING HEAT PUMPS.
THIS EFFORT FEELS KIND
OF FUTILE WHEN WE ARE AT THE
SAME TIME CONSTRUCTING BRAND
NEW RENTAL HOUSING WITH GAS
FURNACES BUILDINGS THAT SOMEONE
WILL HAVE TO RETROFIT AT SOME
POINT AT HUGE COST WITHOUT A
FULL STAFF REPORT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS PROJECT IS
FULLY COMPLIANT WITH LOCAL
ORDINANCES.
MR. HE DIDN&apos;T SAY THERE MAY BE
ISSUES WITH PARKLAND
CONTRIBUTION OR WITH THE
WETLANDS PERMIT.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW.
BUT SINCE THE PETITIONERS ON
HAND I DIRECT MY COMMENTS
DIRECTLY TO THEM ON IF YOU&apos;RE A
CONSTRUCTION MANAGER HAS NO
EXPERIENCE WITH THE RF HEAT
PUMP SYSTEMS, PLEASE CONSULT
WITH SOME OF THE FULLY
ELECTRIFIED APARTMENT PROJECTS
IN ANN ARBOR NOW UNDERWAY.
I SUGGEST CONTACTING BRAD MOORE
WHO CALLED IN EARLIER TONIGHT
OR ERIC DOYLE ON THE WAHALA
GLEN DEVELOPMENT TEAM.
&gt;&gt; STEVE GABBERS AT LOCKWOOD
SENIOR LIVING OR SEAN BUZZ AND
RYAN TOBIAS AT TWENTY ONE
ELEVEN PATRICK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MR. LEONARD, IS THERE ANYONE
CALLING IN?
YES, CALLER WITH PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH FIVE THREE FOUR YOU
HAVE THREE MINUTES TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION GETTING
IN.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG AGAIN
CALLING FROM LOWERTOWN IN ANN
ARBOR.
I READ MR. GROPERS LETTER THAT
HE WROTE TO YOU AND HEARD WHAT
YOU JUST SAID AND I REALLY WANT
TO THANK HIM FOR HIS COMMENTS.
THANK HIM FOR DOING THE
HOMEWORK AND THE MATH FOR ALL
OF US IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO ADHERE
TO EIGHT TO ZERO, WE&apos;RE GOING
TO MAKE AN ATTEMPT EVEN TO GET
CLOSE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW WE CAN KEEP
BUILDING THE WAY OR BUILDING
CAN SET IT.
WELL, I&apos;M NOT GOING TO GO OVER
THE SAME GROUND.
I WILL ADD THAT THERE&apos;S A PD
COMING IN JUST NORTH OF HERE
WHERE THE DEVELOPER SAID IN
THEIR PREPARED MEETING THAT
THEY INTENDED TO MAKE THE TYPE
OF SUSTAINABLE BUILDING
TECHNIQUES ON THAT PROJECT THAT
WOULD BE LOOKING FOR AND ALSO
INTENDING TO HAVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ON SITE.
I BELIEVE 15 PERCENT OF THE
UNITS MAY BE 80 SOME UNITS I
THINK 13 UNITS OF AFFORDABLE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOALS WE
HAVE SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND
WE NEED TO BE MEETING THEM WITH
EVERY PROJECT, EVERY STEP WE
TAKE IN THE WRONG DIRECTION IN
TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
BUILDING IS SOMETHING WE HAVE
TO SOMEHOW OVERCOME.
&gt;&gt; AND MR. GARBER LAID OUT THE
MATH ON THAT QUITE WELL.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ONE OF MY BIG
CONCERNS ABOUT THIS ONE WHICH I
WON&apos;T GET INTO BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT
I&apos;M NOT WHAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT NOW THE SIMILAR THING
OCCURS IN MANY CASES HERE.
IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED THREE TO
ZERO SCHOOLS WE CAN&apos;T BE
MISSING GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES
FOR SOME OF THE BIGGEST
DIFFERENCES IN OUR
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND THEN BE
JUST CHWAT AROUND THE EDGES
WITH SOME OF OUR OTHER ACTIONS
.
&gt;&gt; BUT ONE QUESTION I WOULD
HAVE FOR YOU THERE ARE CERTAIN
THINGS WE CAN AND CAN&apos;T DO.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
CERTAIN THINGS WE CAN LEGALLY
DO IN VOTING AND THAT WE CAN&apos;T
.
&gt;&gt; BUT IS THERE SOMETHING
PERHAPS YOU CAN TALK ABOUT LIKE
YOU DID WITH EV CHARGERS BEING
LIKE EVERYBODY CAN HAVE A
BUILDING THAT IS CURRENTLY
BUILT TO BE POWERED BY HEAT BUT
THAT IS ELECTRIC READY JUST
LIKE YOU DID WITH THE CHARGERS?
WHAT IS OUR ABILITY AS A CITY
TO SOMEHOW BUILD IN REQUIREMENT
FOR ELECTRIC READY WHEN A
BUILDING IS GOING UNDER NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO TWENTY THREE WHENEVER THIS
WOULD BE OR IF WE CAN&apos;T DO IT
ON THIS PROJECT BUT EVEN IF IT
NEEDS TO BE A LOT OF THINGS TO
MAKE HAPPEN IN PROJECTS AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE SOME WAY TO REQUIRE
THEM TO AT LEAST BE ABLE READY
TO CONVERT OVER TO ELECTRIC
USAGE IF I DO THAT NOW THESE
BUILDINGS ARE GOING TO BE
STANDING FOR DECADES AND WE&apos;RE
IN A DEFICIT ENTRY TO VARIABLES
STARTING IMMEDIATELY AND WE&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE A HARD TIME
ACHIEVING THOSE GOALS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; NO OTHER SPEAKERS INDICATED.
ALL RIGHT THEN I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND SINCE WE
DON&apos;T HAVE A MOTION TO READ IN
FRONT OF US.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, JUST NO MOTION OR
ACTION.
BUT JUST TO BE CLEAR THE SAME
THIS PETITION WILL REAPPEAR ON
THE APRIL 5TH AGENDA.
THERE WILL BE A DEDICATED
PUBLIC HEARING AND A FULL
PRESENTATION OF THAT MEETING.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE&apos;RE INTO THE OTHER
BUSINESS SECTION TWO ITEMS THAT
I SHOULD KNOW WERE HAD
ADDITIONAL MEMOS SENT TO US BY
STAFF LATE TODAY, THE SECOND
OF WHICH WE DID TALK ABOUT AT
THE THE WORKING SESSION.
&gt;&gt; BUT I WILL CERTAINLY HAPPILY
READ THE ROOM AS WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT IS TO DECIDE
WHETHER WE TAKE ACTION TONIGHT
OR WE WANT TO COME BACK TO SO
ITEM TEN A IS COMMISSION REVIEW
OF THE PROPOSED, UM, WORKFORCE
HOUSING RESOLUTION.
MR. LENNART.
&gt;&gt; YES.
SO THIS BRIEFLY APPEARED
SHORTLY.
IT WAS PRESENTED JUST A COPY
OF A DRAFT RESOLUTION THAT WAS
PUT FORTH BY CITY COUNCIL AND
REFERRED TO A SERIES OF BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS FOR FEEDBACK OR
ADVICE ON FUTURE CONSIDERATION
OF IT.
THE THIS WAS PRESENTED TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WE HAD
A VERY BRIEF DISCUSSION.
IT WAS I THINK IT YOU BEEN AND
PROVIDED THE PREVIOUS NIGHT SO
I SHARED IT AT THE TABLE AND
FRANKLY I JUST HONESTLY SORT
OF HAD SOME DIFFICULTY IN
FINDING THE BEST WAY TO PROVIDE
SOME SUPPORT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON HOW TO APPROACH
THAT FEEDBACK.
GENERALLY THE RESOLUTION
PROPOSES A A DIALOG WITH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TOWARDS
THE GOAL OF ADDING 2000
WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS TO
NORTH CAMPUS OVERSIMPLIFICATION
BUT THE BULK OF THE RESOLVE
CLAUSES ARE AROUND THE CITY
STAFF SPECIFICALLY THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR STRUCTURING A
CONVERSATION WITH THE
UNIVERSITY WITH ELECTED
OFFICIALS, POTENTIALLY WITH
STATE ELECTED OFFICIALS AND
STATEWIDE AGENCIES TOWARDS THE
SCHOOL AND WE ALSO AT YOUR AT
YOUR DIRECTION I REACHED OUT TO
A COUPLE MEMBERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO
INVITE THEM TO COME AND TALK
ABOUT THIS AND OR THEIR
UPCOMING NORTH CAMPUS MASTER
PLANNING.
I THINK THEY WERE SORT OF IN
THE SAME MODE OF PROCESS WHAT
THE IMPLICATIONS OF OF THIS
RESOLUTION MIGHT BE AND
DECLINED THAT IT WAS SORT
OF TOO PRELIMINARY TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ARE SO GIVEN THAT I
LOOK BACK TO OUR POLICY
DOCUMENTS, OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND INCLUDED SOME PROBABLY
THE MOST HIGH LEVEL RELEVANT
SECTIONS OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT SPECIFICALLY RELATE TO
NORTH CAMPUS AND TO SUMMARIZE
OUR OUR OUR PLAN SAYS THAT IN
THE EVENT THAT THE UNIVERSITY
WERE TO SELL OR OTHERWISE
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT MIGHT OCCUR
ON AREAS OF NORTH CAMPUS.
THESE ARE A SERIES
OF RECOMMENDATIONS ABOUT HOW
THE PLANNING THE CITY SHOULD
RESPOND TO THAT.
TO BE CLEAR, I DIDN&apos;T GO INTO A
LOT OF DETAIL ABOUT PROPOSED
DENSITY IN THOSE AREAS IN THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS VERSUS EXISTING
DENSITY ON THOSE THOSE AREAS.
&gt;&gt; BUT GENERALLY MY READ IS
THAT THE LAND USE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ARE PRETTY
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT EXISTED
THERE AT THE TIME THAT PLAN WAS
ADOPTED AROUND 2009 AND SO THIS
RESOLUTION SUMMARIZES THAT AND
IT PROVIDES POTENTIALLY TWO
SCENARIOS FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER.
OF COURSE I AM HAPPY TO PROVIDE
ANY ADDITIONAL SUPPORT OR
INFORMATION THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR YOU TO PROVIDE THAT
FEEDBACK OF DESIRED.
BUT ONE OPTION A IS A PRETTY
MINOR AMENDED RESOLUTION THAT
IS MY REVIEW OF THE AREAS THAT
MIGHT BE MOST APPLICABLE TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
RECOMMENDATIONS AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION SPECIFIC
ROLE IN LAND USE POLICY AND IT
FOLLOWS A LEAD THAT SOME OF THE
OTHER BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS I
THINK SPECIFICALLY THE ENERGY
COMMISSION I DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION OR
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION ARE
ON IT BUT I THINK THEY ARE
LOOKING AT THIS RESOLUTION FROM
HOW TO IF THIS WERE TO OCCUR,
HOW DOES IT RELATE TO
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS IF IT WERE
TO OCCUR, HOW IT MIGHT RELATE
TO TRANSPORTATION GOALS AS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND
LEGISLATIVELY THE CITY DOESN&apos;T
HAVE REVIEW AUTHORITY OVER THE
UNIVERSITY.
SO THAT&apos;S WHY THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS STRUCTURED IN THE WAY
IT IS THAT IN THE EVENT THAT
THIS WERE TO BE DEVELOPED AS
PRIVATE PROPERTY THEN THIS IS
HOW WE WOULD LOOK AT IT.
SO OPTION A IS ACKNOWLEDGE WE
SORT OF A PRETTY MINOR LEVEL
OF FEEDBACK I THINK TO THAT
RESOLUTION RECOGNIZING THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DOESN&apos;T
HAVE TOO MUCH ROLE IN IT.
THIS IS RESOURCES
OF CONVERSATIONS OF CITY
LEADERSHIP AND UNIVERSITY
LEADERSHIP AND ULTIMATELY THE
UNIVERSITY TAKING A PATH TO
UNDERTAKE THAT TYPE OF WORK.
&gt;&gt; OPTION B IS ANOTHER SCENARIO
THAT I&apos;VE PRESENTED HERE WHICH
IS IN SHORT RECOGNITION THAT
PROBABLY HIGHLY EMPHASIZING
THAT LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK THAT
THE CITY DOESN&apos;T HAVE
REGULATORY IMPACT OVER WHAT
HAPPENS ON NORTH CAMPUS THAT
THUS FAR AND IT&apos;S ONLY YOU
KNOW, I WANT TO BE CLEAR IT&apos;S
ONE EMAIL AND ONE RESPONSE.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO DEFINE A LACK
OF INTEREST BUT PERHAPS GIVEN
THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE LAND USE
AUTHORITY OVER THE UNIVERSITY,
THEY HAVE THUS FAR NOT
EXPRESSED THIS AS A GOAL THAT
THEY&apos;VE IDENTIFIED.
MAYBE IT WOULD BE BEST FOR US
NOT TO DEVOTE CITY RESOURCES
INTO THIS CONVERSATION AND IN
FACT PUT SIMILAR RESOURCES INTO
MAYBE THE AREAS OF HOUSING
POLICY THAT WE MIGHT HAVE MORE
INFLUENCE OR IMPACT ON TO BE
CLEAR, I THINK ADDING HOUSING
UNITS THERE COULD HAVE A
POSITIVE BENEFIT TO THE CITY.
IT WOULD PROVIDE ANOTHER
HOUSING TYPOLOGY, WOULD PROVIDE
MORE HOUSING UNITS.
MORE THAN LIKELY I WOULD
ANTICIPATE THAT IF DEVELOPED IT
WOULD BE BY THE UNIVERSITY
ITSELF WHICH WOULD BE A NARROW
A NARROW MARKET IF YOU WILL.
BUT AN IMPORTANT AND
SIGNIFICANT MARKET IN THE CITY.
BUT SO THAT&apos;S THAT WAS MY
INTENTION HERE.
IT WAS DELIVERED TO YOU LATE.
THAT&apos;S PART OF A REFLECTION
OF MY TRYING TO FIND MY VOICE
WITH WAYS THAT I COULD TEE UP
SOME POSSIBILITIES FOR THE
COMMISSION TO CONSIDER HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT I CAN
OR AS CHAIRMAN SAID, IF IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT YOU&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEND SOME MORE TIME ON, IT
COULD BE POSTPONED.
IT&apos;S NOT UNDER A PARTICULAR
DEADLINE.
WE COULD POSTPONE IT TO A
FUTURE MEETING IF YOU WANTED TO
JUST CONSIDER IT OR IF THERE&apos;S
OTHER INFORMATION I COULD
PROVIDE.
THANK YOU, MR. LENNOX.
ALSO LATE AND SO IT GOT PRINTED
OUT AND PUT ON YOUR YOUR SEATS
IS MY EMAIL EXCHANGE WITH JOHN
MIRSKY WHO CHAIRS THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION AND
ENERGY COMMISSION ENERGY
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; OK, I COULDN&apos;T REMEMBER
WHICH OF THESE ONE OF THEM HAS
ALREADY PASSED IT AND SO HE
SENT THEIR MARKED UP VERSION
AND YOU CAN SEE FROM THE EMAIL
CHAIN JUST WONDERED WHAT WE
WERE DOING.
I HOPE I DID NOT OVERSTEP MY
BOUNDS IN SAYING THIS IS WHAT I
THINK WHICH IS TRYING TO REPORT
BACK THAT LIKE WE SAW INITIALLY
EFFECTIVELY WHAT MR. LEONARD
HAD SAID.
I I BELIEVE THAT IT&apos;S IMPORTANT
AS WE&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT
PLANNING PERSONALLY TO KNOW IF
THERE&apos;S ANY INDICATION OF WHAT
ENROLLMENT&apos;S HAPPENING SO THAT
WE CAN PLAN ACCORDINGLY LIKE
THAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR US
LIKE AN INPUT INTO KIND OF THE
TRENDS THAT WE OUGHT TO BE
TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION IN
THE FUTURE.
THAT&apos;S MY PERSONAL OPINION.
I BUT BUT THAT&apos;S EFFECTIVELY
WHERE THIS EMAIL EXCHANGE CAME
FROM.
&gt;&gt; SO OTHER THOUGHTS ON WHAT WE
OUGHT TO DO OPTION OPTION B,
OPTION C THAT YOU WANT TO COME
UP WITH COMMISSIONER ABRAMS TO
THE QUESTION ABOUT PROCESS OUR
OUR ROLE HERE YOU MENTIONED
THAT ANOTHER MOTION HAD PASSED.
DO WE HAVE TO VOTE?
DO WE HAVE AN UP OR DOWN VOTE
ON PASSING A RESOLUTION OR IS
CITY COUNCIL ASKING FOR OUR
FEEDBACK WHICH COULD TAKE ANY
FORM?
YES, I&apos;M SEEING A NOD FROM
CITY.
&gt;&gt; SO CITY COUNCIL HAS ASKED
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
YOUR REVIEW AND FEEDBACK ON
THIS RESOLUTION SO THAT BECAUSE
YOU SPEAK AS A BODY IF YOU WANT
TO PROVIDE ANY FEEDBACK I THINK
IT SHOULD BE A VOTE BUT IT IS
NOT YOU ARE NOT AUTHORING THIS
RESOLUTION.
YOU COULD ENDORSE THE
RESOLUTION BUT THE CITY COUNCIL
WILL BE TAKING ANY ACTION THAT
THIS BODY SHARES OTHER BODY
SHARE AND THEN ULTIMATELY THEY
WILL BE CONSIDERING WHAT IF ANY
OF THOSE SUGGESTIONS CHANGES,
MODIFICATIONS, IDEAS MIGHT BE
APPROPRIATE TO INCLUDE OR NOT.
AND ULTIMATELY CITY COUNCIL
WILL BE DECIDING WHETHER OR NOT
TO DIRECT STAFF TO UNDERTAKE
THESE ROLES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
JUST IN RESPONSE TO OPTION B,
MY MY SENSE IS THAT THIS SO FAR
AS A ONE WAY CONVERSATION AND
THAT THERE&apos;S NOT A LOT
OF INITIATION AND ENTHUSIASM
COMING FROM THE UNIVERSITY
ABOUT ENGAGING IN THIS DIALOG.
HOWEVER, I ALSO DON&apos;T FEEL THAT
I PERSONALLY UNDERSTAND HOW
RESOURCES ARE ALLOCATED AT THE
CITY LEVEL IN TERMS OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS TIME AND EVEN
THE CITY COUNCIL WORK PLAN.
SO I DON&apos;T FEEL THAT I&apos;M IN A
POSITION TO SAY THAT I YOU
KNOW, UH NECESSARILY WANT TO
WEIGH IN AND HOW THAT HOW
RESOURCES ARE ALLOCATED.
I THINK MY HOW I HOW WE COULD
WEIGH IN POTENTIALLY AS A BODY
IS TO ASSERT THE IMPORTANCE
OF HOUSING AND MAYBE JUST WHAT
WE THINK ARE THE MOST EFFECTIVE
WAYS TO INCREASE HOUSING IN ANN
ARBOR WHICH I THINK ON MY TOP
FIVE LIST OF TOP FIVE WAYS
WOULD NOT INCLUDE PROBABLY THIS
CONVERSATION WITH THE
UNIVERSITY BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
UNLESS THEY INDICATE BUT WE
ALSO COULD DECLARE OUR
ENTHUSIASM FOR HAVING THAT
CONVERSATION IF THEY EVER
WANTED TO HAVE IT WITH US.
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S MY INITIAL TWO
CENTS ON OTHER TWO CENTS OR
MORE.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER DISH.
I JUST WOULD LIKE US TO
DISPATCH WITH THIS EFFICIENTLY.
I AM NOT INCLINED TOWARD A
BECAUSE I DON&apos;T ACTUALLY WANT
US TO PASS THIS RESOLUTION.
I WOULD RATHER THAT WE NOT VOTE
ON IT BUT THAT SEND SOME
REMARKS FORWARD AND I LIKE THE
LIST OF THINGS THAT&apos;S UNDER B
AND I THINK ADDING TO BE JUST
WHAT COMMISSIONER ABRAMS JUST
SAID AND AFFIRMATION OF THE
IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING JUST THAT
THE YEAH I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD BE FINE.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE HAVE A VERY
CHARGED WORKPLAN AND I DON&apos;T
WANT TO TAKE ANY TIME WITH THIS
OTHER THOUGHT.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
GET RANDALL.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER THAT
I FEEL LIKE UM LIKE SOME
COMMENTS ARE GREAT.
YOU KNOW, IF PEOPLE ARE SEEING
THINGS I PERSONALLY DON&apos;T WANT
TO TAKE A HUGE YOU KNOW,
SIDETRACK FOR MAKING THIS
PERFECT THE WAY THAT WE WOULD
SEE TO BE PERFECT BECAUSE I
FEEL LIKE WE HAVE A HUGE AGENDA
IN FRONT OF US THAT WE DO HAVE
A LOT OF CONTROL OVER AND THAT
THIS IS SOMETHING IT TAKES TWO
TO TANGO AND WE JUST HAVE NO
IDEA WHAT THE OTHER SIDE IS
INTERESTED IN OR HAS ANY YOU
KNOW.
&gt;&gt; AND SO, YOU KNOW, I THINK
IT&apos;S GREAT TO KIND OF PUT
PRESSURE ON THE UNIVERSITY TO
SEE THAT WE&apos;RE INTERESTED IN
THIS.
THAT&apos;S AWESOME.
BUT I DON&apos;T I FEEL LIKE WE JUST
IN TERMS OF OUR BANDWIDTH, I
JUST FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S MORE
EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE FOR US
TO FOCUS ON THE WORK PLAN THAT
WE HAVE AND TO OFFER COMMENTS
IN YOU KNOW, IN GOOD FAITH WITH
THIS AT OUR SESSION.
NOW IF PEOPLE SEE THINGS THAT
ARE OBVIOUS OR WHATEVER, THAT&apos;S
GREAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DON&apos;T WANT TO DEVOTE
THIS COULD TAKE SEVERAL WORK
SESSIONS I THINK TO REALLY GET
THIS TO A POINT WHERE IT FEELS
LIKE FULLY VETTED BY BUT BY THE
WORK THAT WE DO AND I&apos;M I DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT I WANT TO TAKE THAT
KIND OF TIME GIVEN THAT IT
SOUNDS LIKE THERE&apos;S BEEN A
RATHER KIND OF LUKEWARM
RECEPTION ON THE OTHER SIDE AT
THIS POINT THAT I THINK IT&apos;S I
THINK AWESOME THAT PEOPLE WANT
TO CREATE THIS.
I THINK THAT&apos;S GREAT IF THEY
HAVE TIME TO WORK ON IT.
BUT I JUST FEEL LIKE WE HAVE A
LOT THAT I FEEL LIKE WE REALLY
WE&apos;VE BEEN SO FRUSTRATED BY SO
MANY THINGS THAT WE CAN&apos;T DO
THE THINGS THEY&apos;RE PRIORITIES
THAT WE DO HAVE THAT WE ARE
LIMITED BY AND I FEEL LIKE WE
HAVE AN AGENDA IN FRONT OF US
THAT WE JUST DECIDED ON OUR
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO AND I
WOULD REALLY LIKE TO SPEND OUR
TIME AND ENERGY PRIMARILY ON
THAT AND TO SUPPORT THIS.
THAT&apos;S GREAT.
BUT I JUST DON&apos;T WANT TO SPEND
A LOT OF OUR BANDWIDTH ON
THAT&apos;S WHERE I AM RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; AND I WOULD ALSO JUST SAY
THAT ENVIRONMENTAL MISSION HAS
DISCUSSED IT ONCE BUT THERE
HASN&apos;T BEEN ANY KIND OF VOTE ON
IT.
LOTS OF QUESTIONS BROUGHT UP
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I THINK ALL THE ENERGY
COMMISSION HAS PASSED.
OK, GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé
.
I&apos;LL JUST ADD THAT I APPRECIATE
THE UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT IS
PUBLIC LAND AND WHERE OUR BODY
CAN ACTUALLY WEIGH IN AND NOT
AND THAT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT WE HAVE IN FRONT OF US HAS
RECOMMENDATIONS IF IT BECOMES
PRIVATE LAND AND I WOULD ONLY
REINFORCE THEN THAT THE FUTURE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS WHERE
THESE MAY BE THE MOST
PRODUCTIVE CONVERSATIONS IN THE
BIGGER CONVERSATION WHERE THE
UNIVERSITY MIGHT COME TO THE
TABLE SINCE WE ARE DOING LIKE
LARGER VISIONING AND CITY
PLANNING AT THAT TIME.
SO IT MAY BE THE MOST
PRODUCTIVE POINT OF RESOURCES
TO ALLOCATE MORE FUNDING AND
RESOURCES INTO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO PUSH THIS
CONVERSATION FORWARD IN THAT
AGENDA INSTEAD OF IN A SEPARATE
RESOLUTION.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHERE I SEE
THIS AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
KIND OF BATTLING THE SAME
CONVERSATION AND IT&apos;S MORE
PRODUCTIVE IN THAT ARENA THAN
SEE IN THIS RESOLUTION.
SPEND TIME ON IT NOW.
BUT ALL I HAVE TO ADD GO AHEAD
COMMISSIONER.
WHICH I&apos;LL START WITH A
QUESTION TO STAFF THE RED BRICK
FARMS GOLF COURSE WHICH IS
OUTSIDE THE CITY IF THE
UNIVERSITY WERE TO RELEASE
THAT, COULD WE ANNEX IT EVEN
THOUGH THE LET US TWENTY THREE
SORT SEPARATE SAID DO WE HAVE
ENOUGH CONTIGUOUS LAND TO BRING
THAT END TO THE CITY?
&gt;&gt; THAT SEEMS UNLIKELY TO ME
GIVEN THE ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS
WE HAVE WITH THE SURROUNDING
JURISDICTIONS.
SO MY RECOMMENDATION WAS GOING
TO BE THAT IF THE UNIVERSITY
WANTS TO HELP WITH HOUSING THEY
SHOULD RELEASE THAT TWO HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FIVE ACRE GOLF
COURSE AND THEN WE COULD ZONE
IT APPROPRIATELY FOR DENSITY
BUT IT SEEMS LIKE THAT&apos;S
UNLIKELY.
BUT HE COULD COME INTO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CONVERSATION
AROUND DEVELOPABLE LAND THAT
SITS AROUND THE CITY TO TRY TO
SERVE THE COMMUNITY NECKTIES
HOUSING CRISIS.
BUT I ECHO EVERYONE ELSE&apos;S
COMMENTS THAT I DON&apos;T I REALLY
WOULD PREFER NOT TO SPEND A LOT
OF TIME ON THIS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
OF FOURTH OR FIFTH WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; NO, I AM EVERYTHING THAT WAS
JUST SAID SO I WON&apos;T COMMENT.
AND THEN A QUESTION I MEAN I
GUESS TO ME I&apos;M NOT REALLY
UNDERSTANDING THIS IN LIGHT
OF THE UNIVERSE NOT INDICATING
THAT THEY WOULD BE A WILLING
PARTICIPANT THIS CONVERSATION
TO ME IT DOES SEEM MORE OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
CONVERSATION.
I MEAN IF THEY WANTED TO SELL
OFF FRONTAGE ON PLYMOUTH LIKE
MAKE THAT PRIVATE AND THAT
COULD BE DEVELOPED AS HOUSING
THAT SEEMS LIKE A BETTER ROUTE
TO PURSUE THAN A CONVERSATION
TO DISCUSS THE UNIVERSITY
BUILDING UNITS OF HOUSING THAT
THEN AREN&apos;T EVEN IN OUR
TEXTBOOKS AND WE DON&apos;T EVEN AS
A PLANNING COMMISSION WE HAVE
NO CONTROL OVER WHAT THEY DO
ANYWAY.
SO WHY WOULD WE WEIGH IN ON
THAT?
SO I GUESS MY QUESTION THEN IS
IF WE GO THIS ROUTE OF LIKE
MAYBE WE JUST SEND A NOTE OR
SOMETHING BUT WHAT IS THE WHAT
IS THE NEXT STEP ON THAT?
I THINK WE GO BACK I THINK WE
ALL PROBABLY AGREE WE DON&apos;T IT
DOESN&apos;T MAKE SENSE TO SPEND A
LOT OF TIME DEBATING AND MAKING
COMMENTS AND LINE CHANGES AND
STUFF TO THIS PROPOSED
RESOLUTION.
SO WHAT WHAT DO YOU THINK THE
NEXT STEP WOULD BE?
WOULD YOU DRAFT SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL BE WORKING ON IT.
YEAH, I COULD PRESENT SORT OF A
MORE REFINED IF IT SEEMS LIKE
WE&apos;RE LEANING TOWARDS SOME
VERSION OF OPTION B, I COULD
PRESENT A MORE REFINED MOTION
TO A FUTURE MEETING OR IF THIS
IS IN THE BALLPARK THE THE
OTHER THINGS THAT I&apos;VE HEARD
ARE THE IMPORTANCE OF HOUSING
AND I COULD REFERENCE SOME
OF THE ASPECTS OF OUR EXISTING
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT TALK
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF DIVERSE
HOUSING TYPES.
I&apos;D PROBABLY JUST SORT OF PICK
MORE GENERAL AS OPPOSED TO
SPECIFIC REFERENCES TO
RECOGNIZE THAT WE VALUE A
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPOLOGY
AND THEN WE COULD PUT A
REFERENCE THAT THAT THIS SEEMS
MORE APPLICABLE TO A
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
CONVERSATION AND IF THAT IF
THOSE TWO SEEMED LIKE
APPROPRIATE IF THOSE TWO ARE
THE POINTS, THOSE COULD BE THE
SOME OF WHAT YOU COMMUNICATE OR
I THINK THAT BE PERFECTLY FINE.
I THINK THE BULLETS THAT ARE ON
THERE WERE SORT OF YOU&apos;RE
SEEING ME TRYING TO PROCESS HOW
I WOULD PRESENT SOME DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS TO THE COMMISSION BUT
IT COULD JUST BE AS SIMPLE AS I
WOULD DO WANT THE COMMISSION TO
SPEAK.
SO WHETHER IF IT&apos;S YOU WOULD
LIKE TO CONVEY THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN EMPHASIS ON
HOUSING AND THAT THIS IS A MORE
APPROPRIATE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN,
SOMEBODY CAN MAKE THAT MOTION.
SECOND, THAT WE COULD VOTE ON
IT AND I WOULD I WOULD FORWARD
THAT AND SHARE THAT
COMMUNICATION WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WE WOULD SEND IT
TO CITY COUNCIL SIMILAR LIKE A
MEMO SIMILAR TO WHAT WE DID FOR
WHATEVER IT WAS THAT WE DID
HOWEVER LONG AGO.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
DOES THAT HELP ANYBODY WANT TO
MAKE THAT MOTION BECAUSE THOSE
ARE THE TWO POINTS THAT I
THOUGHT SHOULD BE BROUGHT UP.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER EVANS, I WOULD
LIKE TO MAKE THAT MOTION GREAT.
SO ANYBODY WANT TO SECOND IT
MOVED OR SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH ANY
DISCUSSION CAN I JUST CLARIFY
THAT IT IS THAT GENERALLY THE
CITY THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BELIEVES THAT HOUSING IS
IMPORTANT.
THIS CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS
GOAL WOULD BE BETTER HOUSED
WITHIN A COMPREHENSIVE CONCRETE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
AND THAT&apos;S IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY A
DECLARATION THAT YES, THIS
RESOLUTION IS GOOD OR BAD BUT
JUST THE FEEDBACK AND RESPONSE
TO IT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, OK, AND I WOULD LIKE
MAYBE THIS IS TOO MUCH
EDITORIALIZING BUT IN
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
THINKING ABOUT LIKE THERE IS A
DEFICIT OF HOUSING RIGHT NOW WE
KNOW THAT ALSO LIKE PLANNING
FOR THE FUTURE.
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND ALSO
WHAT LIKE WHAT GROWTH IS
ANTICIPATED.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT A GOOD PLANNING
PROCESS ALSO IS THINKING ABOUT
.
SO AS COMMISSIONER ABRAMS AND
ON THE MOVE IN SOME OTHER
DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT YEAH I
GUESS I WOULD I JUST WANT TO
JUST BRING A LITTLE BIT
OF CONTEXT TOO AND JUST THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
UNIVERSITY OWNS AN ENORMOUS
AMOUNT OF LAND OVER ON THE
NORTH CAMPUS LIKE IT&apos;S RED
BRICK FARMS IS EAST DROP IN THE
BUCKET OF WHAT THEY OWN AND
THERE IS A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND AND THEY
THEY OWN A LOT OF LAND AND SO
IT WOULD BE VERY SIGNIFICANT IF
THEY WERE TO RELEASE SOME THAT
TOWARDS THIS.
SO I JUST I WANT US TO GET THAT
I&apos;M NOT CHANGING HOW WE&apos;RE
THINKING ABOUT IT BUT MAYBE
THAT&apos;S PART OF KIND OF WHAT WE
COMMUNICATE IS THAT WE&apos;RE KIND
OF STUCK WITH, YOU KNOW, WHAT
THE LEFT RIGHT SOME OF THESE
THINGS AND THEY HAVE A LOT
OF IT.
I MEAN THEY REALLY DO.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW THAT
GETS INTEGRATED BUT I I DO WANT
TO JUST SET THE STAGE WITH THAT
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT JUST HOW
MUCH LAND THEY DO ON OVER IN
THAT AREA TOO THAT LIKE EVEN
EVEN A TINY PERCENTAGE OF THAT
COULD REALLY GO SOMEWHERE.
AND I KNOW THEY ALSO ARE YOU
KNOW, THEY ARE GETTING TOWARDS
THE END OF SOME OF THE AGE
OF SOME OF THEIR HOUSING OVER
IN NORTH CAMPUS TO WHERE
THEY&apos;RE HAVING TO MAKE
DECISIONS ABOUT THESE THINGS
BECAUSE IT&apos;S EITHER FIX A WHOLE
LOT OF STUFF OR CHANGE IT ALL
OVER OR WHATEVER AND THERE IS,
YOU KNOW, OPPORTUNITY WITH
THAT.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THIS IS JUST
LIKE POINTLESS BUT I ALSO JUST
DON&apos;T WANT TO TAKE A BUNCH
OF OUR TIME ON IT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE&apos;S A
WAY TO KIND OF CONTEXT WISE A
LITTLE BIT AROUND SOME OF THAT
TOO BECAUSE IT IS A HUGE
OPPORTUNITY IF THEY WERE TO
SOFTEN ON THEIR WILLINGNESS TO
BE ABLE TO THINK ABOUT HOUSING
BEYOND STUDENTS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I WOULD ONE WAY TO DO
THAT WOULD BE TO THINK ABOUT
THE FRAMING OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SAYS
IF THIS LAND WERE TO BE SOLD,
THIS IS HOW WE WOULD LOOK AT
IT.
&gt;&gt; ONE WAY TO DO THAT WOULD BE
TO SORT OF RAISE THAT AND SAY
THIS WOULD BE A REALLY GOOD
THING IF THE LAND WERE SOLD AND
THIS IS HOW WE WOULD LOOK AT
IT.
RIGHT.
SO THAT WOULD BE ONE WAY TO
ADDRESS THAT OR JUST SIMPLY AS
YOU SAID, THIS IS A VERY
SIGNIFICANT LANDHOLDER.
IT OCCUPIES A LOT OF LAND IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND THE DECISIONS
THAT ARE MADE THERE ARE
IMPACTFUL.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO THINK THAT THE THE
RESEARCH THAT YOU&apos;VE PULLED
TOGETHER, THE SNIPPET THAT YOU
INCLUDE HERE UM AT THE BOTTOM
OF PAGE ONE AND THE TOP OF PAGE
TWO I THINK WOULD BE HELPFUL.
SO YOU&apos;VE DONE THE RESEARCH
ALREADY IF WE COMMUNICATE THAT
WE&apos;VE ALREADY ACKNOWLEDGED THIS
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN WITHIN OUR
EXISTING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
WELL, WHICH EFFECTIVELY SAYS IF
WE JUST HAD A LITTLE BIT
IMAGINE THE GOODNESS GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS JUST A COMMENT I
DON&apos;T MANY OF YOU PROBABLY ARE
ALREADY FOLLOWING THIS BUT
THERE&apos;S AN INTERESTING BATTLE
GOING ON IN BERKELEY RIGHT NOW
BETWEEN NEIGHBORHOOD GROUPS AND
THE UNIVERSITY AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD GROUP RECENTLY WON
A COURT CASE THAT FORCES THE
UNIVERSITY TO LIMIT ENROLLMENT
TO TWENTY TWENTY NUMBERS.
BUT THE STATE LEGISLATURE I
THINK IS ACTUALLY SWOOPING IN
TO SAVE THE UNIVERSITY AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD GROUP IS USING
CALIFORNIA&apos;S ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
AND CLAIMING THAT THE INCREASED
ENROLLMENT IS A POLLUTION
ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S INTERESTING I THINK
IT&apos;S A REALLY COMPLEX I DON&apos;T
THINK IT&apos;S SUCH A CLEAR CLEAR
SIDES BUT IT&apos;S DEFINITELY OTHER
COMMUNITIES ARE ARE ARE TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO HANDLE
THIS SITUATION AS WELL.
MR. LEONARD, BASED ON OUR
CONVERSATION NOW WHAT I AM
ENVISIONING IS A MEMORANDUM ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE
CITY COUNCIL THAT WILL
HIGHLIGHT THAT PORTION OF THE
EXISTING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
THAT EMPHASIZES IF THIS LAND
WERE TO BE SOLD THIS IS HOW WE
WOULD REVIEW IT.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD PROBABLY
EDITORIALIZE THAT ON BEHALF
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
SAY AND THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF LAND IN THE CITY
IT&apos;S IMPACTFUL THEN WOULD
HIGHLIGHT
OUR EXISTING
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LANGUAGE
ABOUT THE IMPORTANCE OF A
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING TYPES AND
THAT THIS LEVEL OF CONVERSATION
IS PROBABLY BETTER SUITED TO A
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
PERHAPS THE CITIES, THE
UNIVERSITIES OR BOTH.
AND THAT&apos;S WHAT I WOULD
COMMUNICATE BEST AND WHAT I&apos;M
UNDERSTANDING AND THE MOTION
MADE GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER.
WHICH IT&apos;S JUST A CLARIFICATION
WHICH I THINK MAY GET RESULTS
WHEN WE GET TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WHICH IS WE
TALKED ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY
RELEASING LAND BACK INTO THE
PUBLIC DOMAIN FOR PURCHASE WHAT
HAVE YOU.
BUT IS THERE SOME WAY WE COULD
BE STRATEGIC IN HOW WE SIGNAL
THAT SO LAND THAT COULD BE
ANNEXED BACK INTO THE CITY?
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THAT IS
MEANINGFUL AT THIS STAGE OR IF
THAT&apos;S A CONVERSATION FOR
LATER.
BUT JUST AS I HEARD YOU READ
THAT OUT AND MY QUESTION ABOUT
THE GOLF COURSE IS THEY COULD
RELEASE THE GOLF COURSE BUT
THEN THAT WOULD BE PROBLEMATIC
BECAUSE WE WOULDN&apos;T BE ABLE TO
ANNEX IT SO YEAH, JUST I&apos;LL
GIVE YOU THAT AND WE CAN DO
WITH IT WHAT MAKES SENSE I
GUESS MY INTENTION WOULD BE TO
JUST HIGHLIGHT WHAT
COMMISSIONER RANDALL WAS SAYING
IS THAT THEY HAVE WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT A VERY SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF PROPERTY THAT COULD
BE USED IN A LOT OF DIFFERENT
WAYS.
I THINK THAT I THINK THAT&apos;S
SORT OF WHAT I WAS ENVISIONING.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF I&apos;D GO SO FAR
AS TO SAY LIKE FOR EXAMPLE AREA
A IS PROBABLY THE MOST
PROMISING.
SO THAT&apos;S I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
QUITE GOING TO WHERE YOU&apos;RE
GOING BUT BUT IT&apos;S TRYING TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THE DECISIONS
THAT ARE MADE THERE HAVE SOME
REAL POTENTIAL IMPACT HAVE
RIPPLE EFFECTS ON THE BALANCE
OF LAND USE PLANNING AND HOW
THE CITY GOES.
OTHER COMMENTS BEFORE WE VOTE
TO SAY AND WE&apos;RE VOTING
EFFECTIVELY TO SAY MR. CANNOT
COME UP WITH A MEMO.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S GONNA BE FINE ON OUR
BEHALF.
YEP.
JUST TO BE CLEAR AND THAT&apos;LL BE
SHARED WITH YOU FOR SOME REASON
YOU SAY THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT I MEANT
AND THEN GREAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN.
DO YOU WANT TO KNOW ALL IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES OR RAISE
YOUR HAND.
I SEE ALL OF THE HANDS SO THANK
YOU MR. LEINERT.
FOR HELPING US WITH THIS.
&gt;&gt; NEXT UP IS THE REVIEW OF THE
IS TENBY WHICH IS THE REVIEW
OF THE FISCAL YEAR.
TWENTY THREE CITY COUNCIL
POLICY AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; WE DID QUICKLY REVIEW THIS
AT THE WORKING SESSION LAST
WEEK.
&gt;&gt; YEP.
SIMILARLY THIS IS CITY COUNCIL
ON AN ANNUAL BASIS SHOCKINGLY
FROM THE TITLE SETS THEIR
LEGISLATIVE POLICY AGENDA.
THIS IS HOW THE CITY COUNCIL
ULTIMATELY DIRECTS STAFF TO
TEND TO PENDING LEGISLATION
ALLOCATE RESOURCES BE IT
LOBBYING LEGISLATIVE CHANGES
THE LIKE.
THIS IS PRESENT THE WORKING
SESSION I AM IT&apos;S AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK.
&gt;&gt; YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUT IT IS
WELCOMED TO THAT END I&apos;VE MADE
SORT OF A COUPLE OF VERY MINOR
CHANGES TO IT ONE UNDER THE
FIRST PAGE INSTEAD OF TAKING A
STEP FURTHER TO SPECIFICALLY
ENCOURAGE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
VIRTUAL MEETING FLEXIBILITY AS
A CONVERSATION THAT THE CITY
HAS BEEN INITIATING OR HAVING
AT THE STATE.
SO I THINK WE&apos;VE LEARNED THAT
IT PROVIDES FLEXIBILITY FOR
PARTICIPATION IN A VARIETY
OF WAYS.
SO IF WE COULD MAKE THAT
PERMANENT, THAT&apos;S GREAT.
&gt;&gt; WE TALKED I MENTIONED AT THE
MEETING THE ELIMINATION
OF RACIALLY RESTRICTIVE
PROPERTY COVENANTS THAT WAS
ACTUALLY ALREADY INCLUDED.
I WAS REFERENCING IT LIKE IT
WASN&apos;T JUST PROPOSING A SIMPLE
CHANGE TO FACILITATE AND
SPECIFICALLY MAKE IT EASIER.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF HOUSE
BILLS THAT HAVE BEEN INTRODUCED
.
I DIDN&apos;T GO SO FAR AS TO
SPECIFICALLY REFERENCE THAT
JUST AGAIN THIS IS INTENDING TO
SET THE CITY COUNCIL TO SET
SORT OF THE DIRECTION THAT THEY
WANT US TO PURSUE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M TO SUPPORT THOSE
ACTIVITIES AND THOSE ARE THE
ONLY CHANGES THAT WERE LOOSELY
DISCUSSED AT THE WORK SESSION
THAT I THREW IN THERE.
IF PLANNING COMMISSION IS
INTERESTED IN ADOPTING THIS,
FORWARDING IT OR ANY DIFFERENT
CHANGES, YOU MAY BUT YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE COMMISSIONER CLARK, IT&apos;S
NOT AN APPROPRIATE TIME FOR
JUST A QUESTION.
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S NOT A
CHANGE.
THAT&apos;S ALREADY ON THERE.
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT THE
ADVOCACY FOR INCLUSIONARY
ZONING AND GIVEN THAT I THINK
THE LAST WORKING SESSION WERE
KIND OF DISCUSSING THE
AFFORDABILITY PREMIUMS AND
WHETHER OR NOT THOSE HAVE BEEN
SUCCESSFUL.
AND JUST I&apos;M CURIOUS WHERE THE
ADVOCACY FOR INCLUSION ZONING
HAS COME FROM AND JUST LIKE IF
THAT&apos;S BASED ON RESEARCH ACROSS
THE COUNTRY IN MANY DIFFERENT
CITIES, INCLUSIONARY ZONING
WHICH IS THE ABILITY LIKE RENT
CONTROL AND THINGS LIKE THAT,
IT HASN&apos;T BEEN EFFECTIVE AND
I&apos;M CURIOUS JUST WHERE THAT
ORIGINATED FROM.
GOOD QUESTION.
I THINK IT&apos;S BEEN ON THE
LEGISLATIVE POLICY FOR SOME
TIME HISTORICALLY THE CITY AND
OTHER COMMUNITIES HAVE BEEN
PRETTY HAMSTRUNG LEGISLATIVELY
TO FIND WAYS SPECIFICALLY TO
LEVER PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT TO
ADVANCE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
GOALS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK INCLUSIONARY ZONING
HAS A LONG STANDING TOOL THAT
MANY COMMUNITIES HAVE SOUGHT TO
UTILIZE FOR THAT PURPOSE.
I AGREE WITH YOU THAT I THINK
WELL, I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T PROFESS
TO HAVE A GREAT BANK
OF KNOWLEDGE BUT MY I WILL TELL
YOU OF OUR LOCAL EXPERIENCES
THAT I THINK WE&apos;RE SEEING SOME
OF THIS AND WILL PROBABLY
ENCOUNTER THIS WHEN WE REVISIT
PREMIUMS WE&apos;VE SEEN AT ANOTHER
TIMES WHERE WHEN WE ARE ASKING
TRADITIONALLY MARKET RATE
DEVELOPERS TO PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS, THEY
CAN ALSO OFTEN BE VERY
CHALLENGING.
AND SO I THINK INCLUSIONARY
ZONING IS I THINK IT IS
PROBABLY A WORTHWHILE POLICY
GOAL THAT IT GIVES CITIES THE
ABILITY TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I AGREE THAT I DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT IT&apos;S THE RIGHT TOOL
AND I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW TO THE
EXTENT THAT THE CITY IS
RESOURCED.
THAT PARTICULAR ITEM I DID I
DID THINK ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
THAT WAS STILL APPROPRIATE TO
INCLUDE DOWN THERE AT ALL.
BUT MY SENSE WAS IF THE STATE
LEGISLATURE ENABLED THAT AS A
TOOL IT GIVES US AND OTHER
COMMUNITIES THE ABILITY TO
THINK ABOUT THE POTENTIAL TO DO
THAT.
SO IN SHORT, I THINK IT&apos;S
PROBABLY JUST BEEN ON THERE FOR
A LONG TIME BECAUSE WE HAVEN&apos;T
HAD OTHER TOOLS AS A MEANS
BECAUSE OF THE RENT CONTROL ACT
THAT WOULD OTHERWISE ALLOW US
TO REQUIRE AFFORDABLE UNITS AND
PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT
.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE DO YOU WANT TO
KEEP GOING?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, GO FOR IT.
I JUST KIND OF MAYBE ENCOURAGE
US TO CONSIDER WHAT WOULD BE IN
OUR BEST INTEREST BECAUSE IF
ANN ARBOR IF IT WERE ALLOWED IN
THE STATE AND IF ANN ARBOR OR
LIKE JUST WHAT IT WOULD DO TO
COMPETITIVE OUR ABILITY TO
ATTRACT DEVELOPERS COMPARED TO
OTHER CITIES THAT DID NOT HAVE
THAT POLICY AND WHETHER WE
MIGHT WANT TO CAREFULLY
CONSIDER WHAT&apos;S IN OUR BEST
INTEREST IN THE LONG RUN AND
THAT&apos;S WORTH PRIORITIZING RENT
CONTROL I&apos;M PRETTY I HAVEN&apos;T
SEEN ANY EVIDENCE THAT RENT
CONTROL DOESN&apos;T DO ANYTHING
BESIDES CREATE TWO SEPARATE
MARKETS AND SLOWS DOWN
DEVELOPMENT AND NEW MARKET
OPPORTUNITY.
SO I&apos;D WANT TO REALLY STRONGLY
ENCOURAGE US TO RECONSIDER AT
LEAST HOW WE APPROACH THAT
LOBBYING ADVOCACY OTHER
COMMENTS.
GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
I THINK THIS IS KIND OF RAISED
BUT NUMBER NINE ADVOCATE FOR
THE INCLUSION OF NON BINARY
BATHROOMS IN THE MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE WOULD BE THE
CHANGE ADVOCATES FOR THE
INCLUSION OF NON BINARY
BATHROOMS IN THE MICHIGAN
BUILDING THE MORE APPROPRIATE
LANGUAGE TO MATCH.
OH RIGHT.
YEAH THAT&apos;S YEP.
AND IF I COULD DETER
COMMISSIONER CLARK&apos;S POINT IF
IF IT&apos;S DESIRED YOU KNOW AGAIN
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY TO SHARE
THAT FEEDBACK WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL IF WE DON&apos;T THINK
THAT&apos;S A WORTHWHILE ENDEAVOR
FOR THE CITY TO BE ADVOCATING
FOR, WE COULD ALSO PROPOSE THAT
THAT BE REMOVED AS WELL.
I MEAN IT&apos;S ULTIMATELY
COUNCIL&apos;S DECISIONS BUT THAT&apos;S
THIS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO
PROVIDE THAT FEEDBACK.
I TRUST THE RESEARCH.
I THINK THAT A LOT OF THINGS
THAT WE DO SOUND GOOD LIKE WE
GET BEHIND AN IDEA.
BUT IF THAT&apos;S WHAT THE RESEARCH
SUGGESTS, IT&apos;S NOT EFFECTIVE.
I&apos;M NOT AN EXPERT IN THAT
SPACE.
I I THINK COMMISSIONER CLARK
CERTAINLY HAS MORE EXPERTIZE IN
THAT SPACE THAN I DO AND SO IF
THAT&apos;S THE RECOMMENDATION THAT
IT MAY CAUSE MORE PROBLEMS THAN
GOOD, I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT ANYBODY
UNCOMFORTABLE NECESSARILY KNOWS
THAT I&apos;M SHARING THAT I THINK
WOULD BE HELPFUL.
SO I WOULD BE SUPPORTIVE OF OF
SUGGESTING DELETING THAT ALONG
WITH THE COMMENT ABOUT WHY IT
WAS DELETED.
GO AHEAD QUESTION.
I MEAN I THINK INCLUSIONARY
ZONING IS TYPICALLY BROADER
THAN RENT CONTROL AND SO
INCLUSIONARY ZONING WOULD
ENABLE US TO DO BY RIGHT.
WHAT WE ARE HAVING TO DO BY
PREMIUM&apos;S RIGHT NOW AND
PRESUMABLY WE COULD CRAFT IT
THE WAY WE CRAFT OUR PREMIUMS
THAT IF YOU WANT TO BUILD HERE
FIFTEEN PERCENT OF YOUR UNITS
NEED TO BE AFFORDABLE WHICH YOU
CAN MEET BY A PAYMENT AND LIVE
TO OUR HOUSING YOU KNOW FUND.
I KNOW THAT&apos;S THE WAY THAT THEY
DO IT IN EVANSTON, ILLINOIS
WHICH IS THE ONLY OTHER PLACE I
KNOW BECAUSE I&apos;M NOT A
PROFESSIONAL AND THAT THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT WE DO DO BUT
WE&apos;RE HAVING TO DO AN END RUN
AROUND THE LACK OF OF THAT
PARTICULAR FORM OF INCLUSIONARY
ZONING WHICH I KNOW THAT TERESA
GILARDI DOES LIKE THAT I THINK
YOU&apos;RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT ABOUT
RENT CONTROL.
IT&apos;S THE THE RESULT THE
RESEARCH ON IT IS VERY, VERY
MIXED AND UM SO YOU KNOW, I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE&apos;S REALLY WE
COULD PUT SOME NUANCE IN THERE,
YOU KNOW, WITH CAUTION TOWARDS
RENT CONTROL.
BUT OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
UM BUT YOU KNOW, NONE OF THIS
IS UNTIL THE LEGISLATURE
CHANGES THIS KIND OF A WISH
LIST.
SO I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW MUCH NUANCE
WE NEED ON A WISH LIST.
GOD JUST A CLARIFICATION POINT
I GUESS IS THAT THE PREMIUMS
WHERE WE HAD OUR WORKPLAN
DISCUSSION I THINK THERE IS
SOME CONVERSATION ABOUT THE
PREMIUMS MAYBE NOT BEING
UTILIZED OR BEING A DETRIMENT
TO THE GROWTH OF THOSE AREAS
AND I GUESS I WOULD JUST WORRY
I THINK MAYBE WE COULD SEE SOME
BUT EXPLORING IT OR MAYBE AT
THE CITY COUNCIL LEVEL COULD
MAYBE EXPLORE THAT AS A GOAL.
BUT I THINK THAT MAYBE THERE
MIGHT BE PUTTING RESOURCES INTO
OTHER OBJECTIVES FOR LOBBYING
MIGHT BE UNTIL WE SORT OUT
WHERE THAT MIGHT BE AND WHAT
HAPPENS WITH OUR AFFORDABLE
PREMIUMS THAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE
AND MAYBE REEVALUATING THOSE
AND THEN THE NEXT STEP MIGHT BE
AT THE STATE LEVEL BUT I THINK
WE MIGHT HAVE SOME LIKE
HOUSEKEEPING TO DO WITH OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PREMIUMS.
&gt;&gt; SORRY ABOUT PLAN BUT UM YEAH
.
&gt;&gt; SO UM I THINK THERE MIGHT BE
SOME SPACE THERE.
GO HAD COMMISSIONER SILVER IS
THERE JUST ROOM TO KIND OF ADD
A SECOND SENTENCE LINE TO
REQUEST YOU KNOW LIKE THE PROS
AND CONS RESEARCH TO BE DONE
RIGHT.
LIKE RIGHT NOW IS SUPPORT AND
ADVOCATE FOR THE ABILITY AND
REALLY I THINK IT IS LIKE UM I
SUPPORT AND EXPLORE THE ABILITY
OF THESE THINGS.
MAYBE IT&apos;S JUST THAT WORTH THAT
CHANGES BUT REALLY KIND
OF PUSHING THAT WE&apos;RE NOT GOING
TO SUPPORT AND ADVOCATE
EVERYTHING THAT&apos;S CURRENTLY ON
THE TABLE.
BUT THERE IS ONE OF THE POLICY
AGENDA GOALS MIGHT BE MORE
ABOUT EXPLORING THAT WORK AND I
THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M HEARING
MORE OF THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S KIND
OF MORE HOMEWORK TO DO INSTEAD
OF JUST JUMP ON THE BANDWAGON
RIGHT AWAY.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT POSSIBLE LANGUAGE?
YEAH, THAT THAT TELLS ME THAT
IT SHOULDN&apos;T BE HERE BECAUSE
THIS IS THIS IS DIRECT STAFF
HOW WHEN WHEN POSE THE QUESTION
IN BETWEEN THE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR COUNCIL TO WEIGH IN.
WHAT SHOULD THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TELL THE STATE
LEGISLATOR?
THE CITY&apos;S POSITION IS ON THIS
AND SO THAT WOULD SUGGEST TO ME
THAT WE DON&apos;T WANT TO BE
REPRESENTING TO THE STATE
LEGISLATURE THAT ANN ARBOR
DEFINITELY WANTS INCLUSIONARY
ZONING BECAUSE WE HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT SO SO WE COULD
ADD THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THINK IT&apos;S I&apos;M HEARING
THAT YOU&apos;RE MAKING A CASE WE&apos;RE
NOT QUITE READY TO DECLARE THAT
AS OUR LEGISLATIVE POLICY AND
PROBABLY SHOULDN&apos;T BE THERE.
BUT UH, I DON&apos;T THINK I FEEL
LIKE RENT CONTROL IS ONE OF THE
POLICY MY THIS IS WHERE I&apos;M
GETTING INTO AREAS THAT I DON&apos;T
FULLY KNOW ABOUT BUT IT&apos;S NOT
SYNONYMOUS WITH INCLUSIONARY
ZONING AND SO I FEEL LIKE IF
THERE&apos;S SOME PART OF WHAT COULD
FALL UNDER A BIG UMBRELLA THAT
THERE&apos;S QUESTIONS ABOUT, I
THINK THAT THAT&apos;S DIFFERENT
THAN LIKE I DON&apos;T WANT TO THROW
THE WHOLE THING OUT BECAUSE I
DO THINK MORE INCLUSIVE
POLICIES ARE IMPORTANT IF THAT
MAKES SENSE AND AS A REMINDER
WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO TAKE ACTION ON
THIS TONIGHT IF YOU&apos;D LIKE SOME
OTHER LANGUAGE OR NOT, WE COULD
I COULD BRING SOME PERHAPS
SHARE CLARK COULD HELP ME SHARE
SOME OF THAT RESEARCH AS WELL.
WE COULD GET FROM THE OFFICE
OF COMMUNITY ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT THEIR KIND
OF PERSPECTIVES AND PROVIDE YOU
WITH A LITTLE BIT MORE
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER CLARK
.
I THINK IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL IF
WE HAVE ALL OF THE SAME
DEFINITION OF INCLUSIONARY
ZONING BECAUSE I THINK WE ALL
MIGHT BE KIND OF LOOKING AT IT
FROM DIFFERENT LENSES, MAYBE
MORE DUAL USE VERSUS A MORE
TECHNICAL IT JUST MIGHT BE
HELPFUL TO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR WHEN WE SAY
INCLUSIONARY ZONING AND I THINK
IT WOULD BE REALLY HELPFUL FOR
OUR STAFF AND OUR LOBBYISTS TO
KNOW THAT TO BEING BEING MORE
EXPLICIT I THINK WOULD HELP A
WHOLE LOT OF PEOPLE.
SO YES, GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; WHICH SO WOULD BE THE PLACE
WHERE WE WOULD RECOMMEND TO OUR
LOBBYISTS TO TRY TO GET THE
STATE TO CHANGE HOW OUR
PLANNING PROCESS CAN REQUIRE
VARIOUS FORMS OF ENERGY USE AND
DEVELOPMENTS THAT IS UNDER AND
I WAS GOING TO TALK ABOUT THAT.
OK, THAT&apos;S ON PAGE FIVE UNDER
NUMBER FIVE SUPPORT THE
ADOPTION OF THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE BUILDING ENERGY STRUCTURE
THAT WAS IN THERE BECAUSE
THAT&apos;S SUCH A BROAD STATEMENT
AND THEN I WENT AND LOOKED IT
UP AND IT&apos;S A REALLY BIG
DOCUMENT SO I COULDN&apos;T SCAN IT
QUICKLY.
SO IT&apos;S CLOSING SO I WOULD SAY
YES.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S TWO DIFFERENT
THINGS KIND OF AT PLAY HERE.
ONE IS LIKE GET RID OF UNIFORM
BUILDING CODES ENTIRELY WHICH I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S TOTALLY
WHAT WE WOULD WANT TO DO
INSTEAD THIS WOULD ALLOW FOR US
TO HAVE STRETCH GOALS AND MY
PSA ASSOCIATED WITH THIS WAS
THIS IS BEING TAKEN UP TODAY
ACTUALLY THERE WERE HEARINGS
YESTERDAY TODAY AND TOMORROW IF
YOU RIGHT NOW THEY ARE GETTING
READY TO PASS A PRETTY GOOD BUT
PROBABLY COULD BE BETTER TWENTY
TWENTY ONE BUILDING CODE FOR
BOTH RESIDENT AND COMMERCIAL
COMMENTS ARE DUE BY FIVE P.M.
TOMORROW NIGHT.
THAT IS THE PSA FOR EVERYONE.
SO YOU COULD ALSO GO TO LANSING
TOMORROW AND SPEAK BUT SO YES,
IT&apos;S THERE AND THAT&apos;S WHAT I
WANTED TO MAKE SURE WAS IN HERE
TOO.
I MEAN IT&apos;LL BE BY THE TIME
THIS GOES FURTHER AWAY BECAUSE
FOR THE LAYPERSON IT MAY NOT
FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S IN THERE IN THAT
SENTENCE.
IT WOULD IT WOULD IT BE HELPFUL
FOR THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR OR
THE LOBBYIST TO SORT OF DETAIL
LIKE FOR EXAMPLE DOT DOT AND
JUST A SENTENCE UNDER IT AS
OPPOSED BECAUSE OTHERWISE YOU
HAVE TO GO INTO THE IBC TO TRY
TO FIGURE OUT LIKE DOES THAT
ALLOW A CITY TO REQUIRE, YOU
KNOW, GEOTHERMAL AS AN OPTION
THAT GETS CONSIDERED AS A PART
OF A SITE PLAN SO I THINK I I
HEAR YOU SAYING IT&apos;S THERE.
I THINK I&apos;M ASKING FOR CLARITY
FOR LAYER PEOPLE INCLUDING
MYSELF LAYPEOPLE THAT THERE IS
SOME KIND OF STATEMENT THAT
WOULD BE LIKE FOR EXAMPLE, THIS
WOULD PERMIT THE CITY TO
RESTRICT THE USE OF GAS WHICH
MR. GARDNER HAS BEEN TALKING
ABOUT.
RIGHT.
EVERY PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH.
YEAH, AND REALLY THAT&apos;S KIND
OF TALKING ABOUT WHAT&apos;S IN THE
ZERO CODE APPENDIX WHICH WOULD
ENABLE THAT.
YES.
SO I THINK THAT FOR ADDING THAT
SENTENCE I I CAN COMMIT TO
HELPING IF WE POSTPONE THIS I
CAN COMMIT TO HELPING WRITE A
SENTENCE ASSOCIATED WITH THAT.
OTHER THOUGHTS SORRY MY
DUCKBILL KEEPS GETTING IN THE
WAY UNDERNEATH YOUR DUCKBILL.
YEAH IT SOUNDS LIKE THEN WE
WANT TO
GREAT, WE DIDN&apos;T MAKE A
MOTION TO MOVE ANYTHING SO THAT
WAS WHAT WE JUST WILL MOST
ANYBODY OBJECTS.
&gt;&gt; OK, SUPER THEN WE WILL MOVE
ON TO ITEM ELEVEN WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENTS.
THIS IS THE FINAL OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
ON THIS AGENDA OR NOT ON THE
AGENDA.
WHATEVER FLOATS YOUR BOAT.
WE&apos;LL START WITH FOLKS THAT ARE
HERE IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS AND
THEN MOVE TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS IF YOU&apos;VE HELD UP
WITH US THIS LONG, YOU KNOW YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE IF YOU&apos;VE
DIALED IN YOU CAN USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE AND IF YOU
JOIN THROUGH ZUM OR DIAL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR TWELVE
TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEINERT WILL CALL ON YOU IF
YOU HAVE RAISED YOUR HAND IN
ONE OF THOSE WAYS PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU AND START YOUR
COMMENTS WITH YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS.
PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SEE NO COMMENTERS IN THE
AUDIENCE HERE.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY ONLINE MR
STOLLBERG, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
AGAIN THIS IS TOM
STOLLBERG CALLING FROM LOWER
TOWN IN ANN ARBOR FOR A COUPLE
OF ITEMS THAT YOU DISCUSSED.
&gt;&gt; FIRST UP, AS FAR AS THE
UNIVERSITY AND HOUSING GOES, I
THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS AT ABOUT
8000 NEW STUDENTS OVER THE LAST
TEN YEARS THAT&apos;S FULLY
ATTRIBUTABLE TO OUT OF THE
COUNTRY AND OUT OF STATE
STUDENTS WHICH TEND TO BE A
WEALTHIER DEMOGRAPHIC WHICH IS
LED TOWARDS WHAT WE&apos;VE SEEN,
WHICH IS THE DEVELOPMENT
OF LUXURY STUDENT HOUSING TO
TRY TO MEET THAT NEED THE
UNIVERSITY PUT IN THAT BIG
THOUSAND BEDS OR SO THE PRIVATE
SECTOR PUT IN THOUSANDS BUT WE
STILL HAVEN&apos;T EVEN HIT THAT
NUMBER JUST ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE
UNIVERSITY&apos;S INCREASE IN
ENROLLMENT OVER THE LAST
DECADE.
&gt;&gt; SO ARE A PLAYER IN OUR THE
DYNAMIC OF OUR REAL ESTATE
MARKET AND IT SHOULD BE
ADDRESSED.
I UNDERSTAND WHY I LISTEN TO
YOU AND UNDERSTAND WHY YOU
DON&apos;T WANT TO SPEND YOUR TIME
ON IT RIGHT NOW AND UNDERSTAND
THE ROUTE YOU&apos;RE TAKING.
BUT WE SHOULD ALSO UNDERSTAND
THAT THE UNIVERSITY OWNS A TON
OF LAND AND THE UNIVERSITY IS
PARTICIPATING AND BRINGING IN
ADDITIONAL DEMAND
OTHER
UNIVERSITIES RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE
SEEING DECLINING ENROLLMENT AT
THE UNIVERSITY NOT SO AGAIN
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER CONSIDERATION
OF ONE OF THE COMMISSIONERS
MENTIONED WHAT WHAT ARE THE
TRENDS IN SUPPORT FOR US TO
KNOW IN OUR PLANNING AND THAT
ALONG THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
TYPE OF DISCUSSION SPEAKING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, IT&apos;S TIME
WE GET BACK TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE SOME QUESTIONS
RAISED.
&gt;&gt; HOW DO WE GET FOUR UNITS ON
LOGS OR HOW DO WE REZONE SINGLE
FAMILY TO EVERYWHERE ALL THE
HOURS WHATEVER TO DUPLEX?
&gt;&gt; WELL, WE HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVISION
PROCESS AND IF THE CITIZENS
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR, OUR
COMMUNITY SAY THAT WHAT THEY
WANT WE REVISE OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO SAY THAT
THEN YOU CAN LOOK AT MAKING
ZONING CHANGES TO CODIFY INTO
LAW WHAT WE&apos;VE CHANGED IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UNTIL SUCH
TIME.
THERE&apos;S AN EXPECTATION BASED ON
THE MASTER PLAN EXCUSE ME THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF WHAT THE
ZONING LAW SHOULD BE.
I THINK PART TWO TONIGHT
CHANGING THE LAW DIMENSIONS IS
APPROPRIATE BECAUSE R2 TWO IS
STILL R2 IT&apos;S STILL A DUPLEX.
OTHER THINGS THAT ARE LESS
APPROPRIATE WOULD BE THINGS
THAT ARE NOT EXPECTED UNDER
EXISTING ZONING FOR EXAMPLE FOR
UNIT SINGLE FAMILY OR DUPLEX
SLOTS WITH THE ONE EXCEPTION
THAT WAS MENTIONED EARLIER.
&gt;&gt; BUT THIRTY MORE SO PROBABLY
HAS TO DO WITH VERY SIMPLE
COMMON SENSE THAT WE HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT SETS UP
AN EXPECTATION AND THEN OUR
ZONING CODIFIES THAT IN THE LAW
AND IT&apos;S NOT INTENDED TO
DEVIATE FROM THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WERE SUPPOSED TO UPDATE
THAT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THEN MAKE A ZONING LAW TO MATCH
THE NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO PROCESS
WHEN IT COMES HOPEFULLY SOON.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; NO OTHER SPEAKERS INDICATED.
ALL RIGHT.
WE CAN MOVE ON TO ITEM TWELVE.
THE UN COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS COMMISSIONER BRANDLE
I&apos;M SORRY THAT I TOTALLY MISSED
THIS BUT WE NEVER REALLY
DISCUSSED THE CHURCH&apos;S WITHIN
THE INDUSTRIAL USE THING IN ANY
KIND OF WAY.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO JUST
BRIEFLY SAY SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT AND THAT IS THAT THE
SETBACKS ARE REALLY DIFFERENT
FOR MANUFACTURE THAN FOR SOME
OF THE OTHER DISTRICTS AND THAT
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IF CHURCHES ARE PART OF THAT
THAT THERE REALLY IS AN
INDUSTRIAL FACILITY MIGHT BE
LIKE LITERALLY RIGHT NEXT TO
THEIR CHURCH AND SO THAT&apos;S THE
THING THAT I FEEL LIKE IS A
LITTLE FUNKY ABOUT THAT BECAUSE
THEY CAN MANUFACTURE AND CAN BE
ABLE TO DO WELL AND THAT&apos;S FINE
.
BUT IF YOU HAVE A GROUP
OF PEOPLE YOU KNOW, SINGING
BEAUTIFULLY TOGETHER AND
THERE&apos;S HUGE CLANGING AND
THINGS LIKE THAT GOING ON NEXT
DOOR, THAT SEEMS A LITTLE
TRICKY TO ME UNLESS THE PERSON
THE PETITIONER HAS THEIR EYES
OPEN ABOUT WHAT THAT ACTUALLY
MEANS BECAUSE I THINK THAT MOST
PEOPLE AREN&apos;T REALLY PAYING
ATTENTION TO THAT KIND OF THING
WHEN THEY&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT
BUYING LAND AND OH WE CAN WE
CAN USE THIS SO I DON&apos;T KNOW
HOW TO ADDRESS THAT BECAUSE THE
SET BACKS ARE ZERO, WHICH IS
KIND OF INCREDIBLE REALLY.
&gt;&gt; BUT THAT&apos;S THE WAY THAT IT
IS THERE.
SO IN THE CHARTS OF THE SETBACK
SO I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE HOW TO
BEST ADDRESS IT.
I&apos;M NOT SAYING THAT WE
SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE CHURCHES WITHIN
IT BUT IT&apos;S SOMEHOW IT SEEMS
LIKE YOU COULD LEAD TO UPSET
PARISHIONERS WHEN THERE&apos;S AN
INDUSTRIAL USE NEXT DOOR AND
THEY DON&apos;T QUITE GET THAT THEY
HAVE TO BE RIGHT NEXT TO IT.
SO I GUESS THAT&apos;S MY ONLY THING
I WOULD LIKE TO JUST KIND OF DO
A POSTSCRIPT BECAUSE WE DIDN&apos;T
REALLY TALK ABOUT IT AS PART
OF OUR MAIN AGENDA EVEN IT WAS
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS ON
THERE AND I DON&apos;T I THINK IT
WAS JUST KIND OF PART OF THE
PACKAGE AND WE SORT OF VOTED IN
THE PACKAGE BUT WE DIDN&apos;T EVER
DISCUSS AS AN ITEM.
SO I JUST WANTED TO KIND
OF REGISTER THAT AS MY CONCERN
ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU VOTED WITH THE
MAJORITY?
DO YOU WANT TO BRING WE DON&apos;T
WE DON&apos;T WE CAN&apos;T BRING IT BACK
FOR RECONSIDER GRACIAN IF YOU&apos;D
LIKE AT IT AT THE NEXT MEETING
.
I GUESS I&apos;M JUST WONDERING IF
IF STAFF HAD ANY KIND THOUGHTS
ABOUT THAT MOVING FORWARD IF
YOU FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S
SAFEGUARDS IN PLACE OF WHICH
I&apos;M NOT AWARE THAT WOULD YOU
CALL MY MY CONCERN ABOUT THAT?
YEAH I GUESS IF YOU WANTED TO
EXPLORE IT I WOULD SUGGEST
MAYBE RECONSIDERATION GENERALLY
I WILL JUST SHARE AND I WOULD I
WOULD WANT TO BRING SETPOINT
ALEXIS DELIO BACK BUT THERE ARE
OTHER USES IN THE M1 THAT ARE
OF A SIMILAR DIFFERENT NATURE
TO OTHER ONE USES AND SO I
WOULD JUST SAY THAT THAT WAS
DEFINITELY A FACTOR AND TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT SORT OF EQUAL
IMPACT AND SO FROM FROM OUR
PERSPECTIVE WE SAW I DON&apos;T NOT
TO DISAGREE WITH THOSE
POTENTIAL CONFLICTS BUT THEY
EXIST NOW.
RIGHT.
THIS IS DEFINITELY ADDING A
POTENTIAL EXACERBATION OF THAT
BY ADDING ANOTHER USE.
BUT I DON&apos;T BELIEVE IN ANY WAY
WE&apos;RE SORT OF CREATING THAT
FRAMEWORK THAT DOESN&apos;T EXIST
ALREADY.
AND SO ON THE FLIP SIDE, I
THINK THAT WAS PART OF THE
RATIONALE IS THAT OTHER VERY
SIMILAR USES ARE ALREADY
ESTABLISHED IN THAT THEY MIGHT
EXPERIENCE SIMILAR THINGS.
THIS SEEMED TO BE A COMPATIBLE
WITH SOME OF THOSE OTHER ONES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, NO I AGREE.
I THINK THAT THAT MAKES A LOT
OF SENSE BECAUSE THERE WERE A
LOT OF OTHER USES THAT YOU
COULD HAVE LIKE DAYCARES AND
FUNERAL SERVICES AND FUNERAL
SERVICES AND THINGS LIKE THAT
TO I GUESS MAYBE IT&apos;S JUST A
MATTER OF I DON&apos;T KNOW YOU
DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE CONTROL OF IT
WHEN PEOPLE ARE BUYING AND
SELLING PROPERTY, YOU KNOW, SO
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S ON THAT&apos;S ON THE
BUYER I GUESS TO BE AWARE
OF THAT IT&apos;S JUST SOMETHING
THAT I&apos;M WORKING IN AND ONE
PROPERTY RIGHT.
SO THERE WAS SOMETHING RIGHT
NEXT DOOR AND IT&apos;S LIKE WOW,
IT&apos;S ZERO SETBACK THERE, YOU
KNOW, AND YOU KIND OF DON&apos;T I
THINK YOU ASSUME THERE&apos;S
SETBACKS WITH ALMOST EVERYTHING
AND IT&apos;S JUST NOT THERE.
SO I AGREE.
I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S BECAUSE IT&apos;S
PART OF A LARGER CONTEXT
OF OTHER THINGS THAT HAVE THAT
TOO.
I DON&apos;T WANT NECESSARILY HOLD
UP THE PROCESS BUT I KIND
OF WANT TO PUT THAT OUT THERE
AND SAY THAT LOUD SO THAT IF
YOU SLEEP ON IT AND STILL FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH IT.
I BELIEVE THAT AT THE GET FOR
THE NEXT MEETING YOU CAN BRING
IT BACK FOR RECONSIDERATION.
SO IF YOU THINK THAT WE OUGHT
TO TALK ABOUT IT MORE, FEEL
FREE COMMISSIONER WHICH JUST IN
QUICK RESPONSE TO THAT BECAUSE
ASKED MISS DELIO ABOUT THAT AT
OUR WORKING SESSION IT WAS A
CHURCH THAT BROUGHT THIS
PETITION FOR US TO CHANGE
BECAUSE THEY ARE IN THAT ZONE
AND NOW THEY WERE NONCONFORMING
UNTIL WE MADE THAT CHANGE
TONIGHT AND THEN WE CHECKED MY
CHURCH BECAUSE WE HAVE AN ORDER
OR SHIP IMMEDIATELY TO OUR
NORTH.
TWO OF THEM AND SO THAT THAT
VERY SAME SITUATION.
BUT WE&apos;RE OH SO WHICH WAS OK I
GUESS OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO
ADJOURN MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WHICH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CLERK ALL IN FAVOR THAT IS ALL
THE HANDS.
&gt;&gt; HAVE A GOOD NIGHT FOLKS AND
A GOOD WEEK